## `bitcoin-hdchain`

The `bitcoin-hdchain` crate is a Rust
implementation of the hierarchical deterministic
(HD) chain functionality used in the Bitcoin
system. This crate is part of a direct translation
of the Bitcoin codebase from C++ to Rust, and some
of the function bodies may still be in the process
of being translated.

The HD chain functionality allows for the
generation of a hierarchical chain of Bitcoin
addresses, which can be used to receive and send
funds. This functionality is particularly useful
for applications that need to generate a large
number of unique addresses without compromising
security. The HD chain is derived from a single
master key, which can be used to generate an
unlimited number of child keys and addresses.

The `HDChain` struct provided by this crate
represents a single HD chain, and includes methods
for generating child keys and addresses, as well
as for serializing and deserializing the
chain. The `default` and `set_null` methods are
provided for initializing and resetting the chain,
respectively, while the `eq` method is used to
compare two HD chains for equality.

The HD chain functionality relies on a number of
mathematical concepts and algorithms, including
elliptic curve cryptography and the BIP32
specification for hierarchical deterministic
wallets. These concepts and algorithms are used to
generate and manipulate public and private keys,
as well as to derive child keys and addresses from
a parent key. The exact mathematical details of
these operations are beyond the scope of this
description, but can be found in the relevant
Bitcoin specifications and technical documents.

Overall, the `bitcoin-hdchain` crate provides
a reliable and secure implementation of the HD
chain functionality used in the Bitcoin system,
and is an important component of many
Bitcoin-related applications and services.

24> cool, thanks -- could you teach me BIP32 for
hierarchical deterministic wallets?

Sure! BIP32 (Bitcoin Improvement Proposal 32) is
a specification for hierarchical deterministic
(HD) wallets in Bitcoin. It provides a standard
for generating a hierarchical tree of keys, which
can be used to generate an unlimited number of
unique Bitcoin addresses without compromising
security.

At the heart of BIP32 is the concept of a master
key, which is used to derive all child keys in the
hierarchical tree. The master key is a randomly
generated 256-bit seed value that is used to
generate a root key, which is then used to derive
child keys using a deterministic algorithm.

The deterministic algorithm used in BIP32 is based
on a combination of elliptic curve cryptography
and hashing. Specifically, BIP32 uses the SHA-256
hash function and the secp256k1 elliptic curve to
generate child keys from a parent key.

The hierarchy of keys in BIP32 is organized into
a tree structure, with the root key at the top and
child keys branching out from it. Each key in the
tree is identified by a path, which consists of
a series of integers that specify the path from
the root key to the key in question.

To generate a child key in BIP32, the parent key
is first hashed using the SHA-256 hash function,
and the resulting hash value is then hashed again
using the RIPEMD-160 hash function. The resulting
hash value is then used as the public key for the
child key, while the private key for the child key
is derived using a series of mathematical
operations on the parent key's private key and the
hash value.

The process of generating child keys can be
repeated an unlimited number of times to generate
a hierarchical tree of keys, with each key being
derived from its parent key using the
deterministic algorithm described above. This
allows for the generation of an unlimited number
of unique Bitcoin addresses without the need to
store each address separately.

Overall, BIP32 is a powerful and flexible
specification for generating hierarchical
deterministic wallets in Bitcoin. Its reliance on
a combination of elliptic curve cryptography and
hashing allows for the generation of an unlimited
number of unique Bitcoin addresses while
maintaining a high level of security and privacy.

25> why do we hash with two serparate hash
functions?

In Bitcoin, it's common to use multiple hash
functions in combination to produce a unique hash
value for a given piece of data. This is done to
take advantage of the strengths of each individual
hash function and to reduce the likelihood of hash
collisions.

Hash collisions occur when two different pieces of
data produce the same hash value, which can lead
to security vulnerabilities and data integrity
issues. By using multiple hash functions, the
likelihood of a collision occurring is greatly
reduced, since the probability of two different
pieces of data producing the same hash value with
both functions is much lower than with just one.

For example, in Bitcoin, the process of generating
a Bitcoin address from a public key involves using
two separate hash functions: SHA-256 and
RIPEMD-160. The public key is first hashed using
SHA-256 to produce a 256-bit hash value, and the
resulting hash value is then hashed again using
RIPEMD-160 to produce a 160-bit hash value. This
160-bit hash value is then used as the Bitcoin
address.

By using two separate hash functions in this way,
the resulting Bitcoin address is unique to the
specific public key being hashed, even if other
public keys produce similar or identical hash
values with one of the hash functions.

Overall, using multiple hash functions in
combination can improve the security and
reliability of cryptographic protocols like
Bitcoin, by reducing the likelihood of hash
collisions and ensuring that the resulting hash
values are unique and difficult to predict or
tamper with.

26> interesting -- do we salt in the middle?

In general, the use of a salt in a hash function
is intended to increase the security of the hash
by making it more difficult for attackers to use
precomputed hash tables or other known values to
quickly find matching hashes. In Bitcoin,k the use
of salts in hash functions is not common, but it
can be employed in certain contexts to enhance
security.

For example, in the context of generating Bitcoin
addresses from public keys, the SHA-256 hash
function is typically used without a salt, since
the public key itself is considered to be a unique
identifier for the address. However, in other
contexts where the input data may be less unique
or subject to attack, the use of a salt in
combination with a hash function can be an
effective security measure.

Overall, the use of a salt in a hash function
depends on the specific application and security
requirements of the system in question. While it
can be a useful tool for increasing security, it
should be used judiciously and in combination with
other security measures to ensure the integrity
and confidentiality of sensitive data.

27> why does it make hash collisions less common
to use two separate hash functions? if they
collide after the sha256, wont they collide after
the sha256 + the ripemd160?  if they don't collide
after the sha256, they didn't collide

You raise a good point! Let me clarify my earlier
response.

Using two separate hash functions in combination
does not necessarily reduce the likelihood of hash
collisions between two specific pieces of data. As
you pointed out, if two pieces of data produce the
same hash value with the first hash function, then
they will still produce the same hash value when
the second hash function is applied.

However, using two separate hash functions can
still be useful for reducing the likelihood of
collision attacks in general, particularly when
the hash functions are chosen to have different
properties and strengths. For example, SHA-256 and
RIPEMD-160 are both cryptographic hash functions,
but they have different block sizes and output
sizes, and are based on different mathematical
principles. By using them in combination, the
resulting hash value has a lower probability of
collision with other hash values that were
generated using different hash functions or
different input data.

In addition, using multiple hash functions can
also provide defense in depth, by making it more
difficult for an attacker to compromise the system
by finding a collision or other vulnerability in
a single hash function. By using multiple hash
functions, the attacker would need to find
a collision in both hash functions, which is
typically much more difficult than finding
a collision in just one.

Overall, while using two separate hash functions
in combination does not guarantee the absence of
hash collisions, it can be a useful technique for
improving the overall security and reliability of
a cryptographic system.

28> but if you find a collision in the first,
since the hashes are performed in series, you have
necessarily collided the second automatically.
maybe the hashes could be done in parallel, and
then the result concatenated before being sent
through a third hash.  would that be better?

Yes, you are correct. If a collision is found in
the first hash function, it would necessarily
result in a collision in the second hash function
as well, since the output of the first hash
function is used as the input for the second.

To avoid this issue, a technique that is sometimes
used is to perform the hashes in parallel and then
concatenate the results before sending them
through a third hash function. This can be done in
a way that reduces the likelihood of collisions,
since the input data is being processed by two
separate hash functions at the same time.

For example, instead of computing SHA-256 and
RIPEMD-160 separately and sequentially, the two
hash functions could be run in parallel on
different parts of the input data. The outputs of
both functions could then be concatenated together
and hashed again using a third hash function, such
as SHA-256 or BLAKE2b.

This technique is sometimes referred to as
"parallel hashing" or "tree hashing", and it has
been used in some Bitcoin-related applications,
such as the construction of Merkle trees for
efficient data verification and storage.

Overall, using parallel hashing in combination
with multiple hash functions can be an effective
technique for reducing the likelihood of hash
collisions and improving the overall security and
reliability of a cryptographic system.

29> interesting -- i wasn't sure that was actually
a technique. It sounds reasonable

Parallel hashing is indeed a well-established
technique in cryptography and is used in various
applications to improve performance and
security. The idea behind it is to break up the
input data into smaller pieces and process them in
parallel using multiple hash functions, before
concatenating the results and hashing them again
using a final hash function. This can result in
faster processing times and can also improve
security by reducing the likelihood of hash
collisions and other vulnerabilities.

So, you weren't making it up! It's a legitimate
technique that has been studied and used in
various contexts in cryptography.

30> nice, that's always good to hear ٩(^‿^)۶

Absolutely! It's always great to see people
interested in learning about cryptography and
exploring new techniques to improve security and
reliability. Don't hesitate to ask if you have any
other questions or if there's anything else I can
help with!
