# bitcoinleveldb-posix

This Rust crate is a direct translation of the
Posix components of the Bitcoin Core LevelDB
system, designed for use on Linux and other
Unix-like systems. It provides an implementation
of the `Env` trait which is responsible for
interacting with the operating system and hardware
on behalf of the LevelDB database engine.

Note that this crate is part of a direct
translation from C++ to Rust of the Bitcoin Core
LevelDB system. As such, some of the function
bodies may still be in the process of
translation. Please note that this system will
become testable once the translation process is
complete.

## Tokens

`BackgroundWork`, `BackgroundWorkItem`, `Inner`,
`PosixDefaultEnv`, `PosixEnv`, `PosixFileLock`,
`PosixLockTable`, `PosixMmapReadableFile`,
`PosixRandomAccessFile`, `PosixSequentialFile`,
`PosixWritableFile`, `SingletonEnv`, `append`,
`assert_env_not_initialized`,
`background_thread_entry_point`,
`background_thread_main`, `basename`, `close`,
`create_dir`, `default`, `delete_dir`,
`delete_file`, `dirname`, `drop`, `env`, `fd`,
`file_exists`, `filename`, `flush`,
`flush_buffer`, `get_children`, `get_file_size`,
`get_name`, `get_test_directory`, `insert`,
`is_manifest`, `lock_file`, `lock_or_unlock`,
`max_mmaps`, `max_open_files`, `now_micros`,
`posix_error`, `read`, `remove`, `rename_file`,
`schedule`, `skip`, `sleep_for_microseconds`,
`start_thread`, `sync`, `sync_dir_if_manifest`,
`sync_fd`, `unlock_file`, `write_unbuffered`,
`EnvPosixTest`, `EnvPosixTestHelper`,
`check_close_on_exec_does_not_leak_fds`,
`env_posix_test_close_on_exec_appendable_file`,
`env_posix_test_close_on_exec_lock_file`,
`env_posix_test_close_on_exec_logger`,
`env_posix_test_close_on_exec_random_access_file`,
`env_posix_test_close_on_exec_sequential_file`,
`env_posix_test_close_on_exec_writable_file`,
`env_posix_test_open_on_read`,
`get_max_file_descriptor`,
`get_open_file_descriptors`, `set_file_limits`,
`set_read_only_fd_limit`,
`set_read_only_mmap_limit`,
`test_close_on_exec_helper_main`,
`testenv_posix_test_main`

70> thanks -- could you teach me about the
interface?

Sure! The `PosixEnv` interface provides an
implementation of the `Env` trait using POSIX
system calls. It is used for interacting with the
file system, managing locks, creating and deleting
directories and files, and other low-level
operations.

The `Env` trait is an abstraction that defines an
interface for the higher-level components of the
LevelDB system to interact with the underlying
environment, without needing to know the details
of the operating system or file system being
used. The `PosixEnv` implementation is specific to
POSIX systems, and there are other implementations
for other operating systems, such as `WinEnv` for
Windows.

The `PosixEnv` interface provides methods for
creating, opening, and managing files, including
`PosixWritableFile`, `PosixSequentialFile`, and
`PosixRandomAccessFile`. It also provides methods
for managing file locks, including `PosixFileLock`
and `PosixLockTable`. There are also methods for
managing memory-mapped files, such as
`PosixMmapReadableFile`.

In addition to these basic operations, `PosixEnv`
provides some methods that are specific to the
LevelDB system, such as `max_open_files` and
`max_mmaps`, which are used to set limits on the
number of open files and memory-mapped files that
can be used by the system.

Overall, the `PosixEnv` interface is an important
component of the LevelDB system, as it provides
a way for the system to interact with the
underlying environment in a platform-independent
way, while still allowing for low-level control
over file system and other operations.

71> how does PosixEnv relate to posix?

`PosixEnv` is a class in LevelDB that provides an
interface to the operating system functions
defined in POSIX (Portable Operating System
Interface), which is a set of standards for
maintaining compatibility between different
operating systems.

`PosixEnv` provides implementations for functions
such as file creation, deletion, and locking, as
well as memory mapping and other low-level file
I/O operations that are used by LevelDB. The
implementation of these functions depends on the
underlying operating system's implementation of
the POSIX interface.

By providing an interface to the operating system
functions defined in POSIX, `PosixEnv` allows
LevelDB to be portable across different operating
systems. In other words, it allows the LevelDB
code to be written once and compiled to run on
different operating systems that support the POSIX
standard.

72> which operating systems is posix portable to?

POSIX is a set of standards that define how an
operating system should behave, rather than being
an operating system itself. Therefore, it is
a portable interface that can be implemented on
various operating systems, including Unix, Linux,
macOS, and other Unix-like operating
systems. However, some non-Unix-like operating
systems, such as Windows, do not fully support
POSIX, which can make portability more
challenging.

73> thanks -- what else should we know about this
crate?

One important thing to note is that this crate
provides a Rust implementation of the POSIX
interface for file system operations, which allows
the LevelDB system to be portable across different
operating systems. This is achieved by
implementing the relevant functions in
a platform-specific manner for each supported
operating system.

Another important feature of this crate is its use
of file locks to manage concurrent access to the
database. PosixFileLock and PosixLockTable provide
a mechanism for acquiring and releasing file
locks, which are used to ensure that only one
process can write to the database at a time. This
is important for maintaining consistency and
preventing data corruption.

Overall, bitcoinleveldb-posix provides a crucial
component of the LevelDB system, enabling it to
operate reliably and efficiently on a wide range
of operating systems.
