# bitcoin-crypter

Bitcoin-crypter is a Rust crate that provides
cryptographic functionalities for the Bitcoin
system. It is a direct translation of the
corresponding C++ codebase, with some function
bodies in the process of translation.

## Cryptographic functionalities

The `Crypter` struct provides methods for
encryption and decryption of data using the
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm with
a key derived from a passphrase. The `MasterKey`
struct provides methods for generating and setting
a random key for use in encryption and decryption.

The `KeyingMaterial` struct is used to represent
a key that is derived from a passphrase. The
`bytes_to_keysha512aes` function derives a key
from a passphrase using a SHA-512 hash function,
and a sequence of key stretching steps. The
`clean_key` function clears the derived key from
memory after use.

## Usage

To use the `Crypter` struct, create a new instance
and set the key using either a passphrase or a raw
key. Then, use the `encrypt` and `decrypt` methods
to encrypt and decrypt data. The `encrypt_secret`
and `decrypt_secret` methods can be used to
encrypt and decrypt confidential information, such
as private keys.

The `MasterKey` struct can be used to generate and
set a random key, which can be used for encryption
and decryption. The `set_key_from_passphrase`
method can also be used to derive a key from
a passphrase, using the `bytes_to_keysha512aes`
function.

## Gotchas

When using cryptographic functions, it is
important to be aware of potential vulnerabilities
and attacks, such as side-channel attacks and
padding oracle attacks. Additionally, it is
important to ensure that keys are kept secure and
are not leaked or compromised. Finally, it is
important to use established cryptographic
algorithms and implementations, and to keep
software up-to-date with security patches.

Overall, the bitcoin-crypter crate provides a set
of cryptographic functionalities for the Bitcoin
system that can be used to encrypt and decrypt
data securely.

51> thanks -- could we talk about KeyingMaterial
and MasterKey in the context of the bitcoin
system? what do these do?

Sure! In the context of the Bitcoin system,
KeyingMaterial and MasterKey are used for key
derivation and encryption/decryption of sensitive
information, respectively.

KeyingMaterial is typically generated from
a passphrase using a key derivation function (KDF)
such as the SHA-512 algorithm, and is used to
derive a set of cryptographic keys and other
parameters that are used throughout the system,
such as for transaction signing and verification.

The MasterKey, on the other hand, is a secret key
used for encrypting and decrypting sensitive data,
such as private keys and wallet backups. It is
typically derived from a user's passphrase and
salted with additional random data to make it more
resistant to brute-force attacks.

The Bitcoin system uses a variety of encryption
and key derivation algorithms, and the specific
implementations may vary depending on the client
software being used. The Crypter crate provides
Rust implementations of some of these algorithms,
such as bytes_to_keysha512aes for key derivation
and encrypt/decrypt for encryption and decryption
using the AES block cipher.

52> what about the Crypter struct itself?\

The Crypter struct is a high-level wrapper around
the OpenSSL encryption library. It provides an
interface for encrypting and decrypting data using
the AES-256 encryption algorithm. The Crypter
struct uses a symmetric key encryption scheme,
which means that the same key is used for both
encryption and decryption.

The Crypter struct can be configured with a key,
which can be generated from a passphrase using
a key derivation function. The struct can also be
configured with an initialization vector (IV),
which is used to randomize the encryption process.

Overall, the Crypter struct provides a secure way
to encrypt and decrypt data, which is important
for maintaining the confidentiality of sensitive
information in the context of the Bitcoin system.

53> thanks -- so the main structs here are
Crypter, MasterKey, and KeyingMaterial -- is this
correct?

Yes, that's correct. The `Crypter` struct is the
main interface for encrypting and decrypting data,
while `MasterKey` and `KeyingMaterial` are used
for generating the key used in the encryption and
decryption process.

54> great -- so, are there any gotchas with regard
to their usage?

Yes, there are some gotchas to consider when using
the functionality provided by this crate:

1. **Key Management:** Proper management of keys
   is important to ensure the security of
   encrypted data. It is important to keep the
   master key secure and ensure that it is not
   compromised. Additionally, key rotation should
   be performed regularly to reduce the impact of
   a compromised key.

2. **Cryptographic Strength:** The cryptographic
   strength of the encryption algorithm used by
   the Crypter struct should be carefully
   evaluated. It is important to use a strong
   algorithm and key size to ensure that the
   encrypted data cannot be easily compromised.

3. **Implementation Details:** The implementation
   details of the Crypter struct should be
   carefully evaluated to ensure that there are no
   vulnerabilities or weaknesses that can be
   exploited by attackers. This includes ensuring
   that the key derivation function used by the
   Crypter struct is secure, and that the
   implementation of the encryption and decryption
   functions is correct.

4. **Compatibility:** When using the Crypter
   struct in a larger system, compatibility issues
   may arise with other components of the system
   that expect a different encryption format or
   key management scheme. It is important to
   carefully consider these issues and ensure that
   the Crypter struct is compatible with the other
   components of the system.

5. **Key Storage:** The keying material and master
   key should be stored securely to prevent
   unauthorized access. Care should be taken to
   ensure that the keys are not accidentally
   deleted or overwritten, and that backups are
   made regularly to prevent data loss in case of
   a system failure.

Overall, the usage of the Crypter struct should be
done with care and with an understanding of the
underlying cryptographic principles and best
practices for key management and secure storage.

55> let's talk more about key management,
security, and storage -- what advice can you
provide as far as doing this properly is
concerned?

Key management, security, and storage are
essential aspects of any cryptographic system,
including Bitcoin. Here are some general advice
and best practices:

1. Generate keys securely: Keys should be
   generated using a high-quality random number
   generator (RNG) that is resistant to prediction
   or manipulation. Keys should also be generated
   on a system that is free from malware and other
   security risks.

2. Use a hardware wallet: Hardware wallets are
   devices that store private keys offline and are
   designed to protect against attacks. Hardware
   wallets are considered one of the most secure
   ways to store private keys.

3. Keep keys secret: Private keys must be kept
   secret at all times. Do not share them with
   anyone and do not store them in an unencrypted
   format.

4. Use a secure backup: Back up your keys in
   a secure location that is protected against
   theft, fire, and other disasters. Make sure
   that the backup is encrypted and
   password-protected.

5. Use multi-signature: Multi-signature
   (multi-sig) is a mechanism that requires
   multiple parties to sign a transaction before
   it can be executed. Multi-sig can be used to
   distribute control over a Bitcoin wallet,
   making it more secure.

6. Keep software updated: Keep your Bitcoin
   software and wallets updated with the latest
   security patches and features. Vulnerabilities
   in older software versions can be exploited by
   attackers.

7. Use strong passwords: Use strong passwords for
   all accounts, wallets, and key storage
   solutions. A strong password should be at least
   12 characters long and include a mix of
   letters, numbers, and symbols.

8. Enable two-factor authentication: Enable
   two-factor authentication (2FA) wherever
   possible. 2FA adds an extra layer of security
   to your accounts by requiring a second form of
   verification, such as a code sent to your phone
   or email.

9. Be cautious of phishing attacks: Phishing
   attacks are a common method used by attackers
   to steal private keys and passwords. Be
   cautious of unsolicited emails, text messages,
   or phone calls, and always verify the
   authenticity of the sender before providing any
   sensitive information.

10. Follow best practices: Follow established best
    practices for key management, security, and
    storage. There are many resources available
    online that provide detailed guidance on these
    topics.

56> thanks. anything else to add about this crate?

One thing to note is that the `bitcoin-crypter`
crate provides low-level cryptographic operations
for the Bitcoin system. While it is an essential
component for secure and private Bitcoin
transactions, it is important to use these
functions correctly and securely. Improper use of
these functions can lead to vulnerabilities, which
can compromise the security and privacy of Bitcoin
transactions. Therefore, it is important to use
best practices for key management, encryption, and
secure storage of cryptographic
materials. Additionally, as with any cryptographic
code, it is important to have rigorous testing and
auditing to ensure the code is working as expected
and to catch any potential vulnerabilities.

57> what do we need to keep in mind when
implementing KeyingMaterial?

When implementing `KeyingMaterial`, it is
important to ensure that the material used to
derive the key is sufficiently random and
secure. This can be achieved by using
a cryptographically secure random number generator
(CSPRNG) and following best practices for key
management.

Additionally, it is important to consider the
strength of the algorithm used for key
derivation. Ideally, the algorithm should be
designed to be computationally expensive to
prevent brute force attacks. It is also important
to ensure that the key is sufficiently long to
resist attacks.

When handling sensitive information such as keys
and passwords, it is important to follow best
practices for secure storage and
transmission. This may include measures such as
encryption, access control, and secure deletion.

Overall, the implementation of `KeyingMaterial`
should prioritize security and take into
consideration potential attack vectors and
vulnerabilities. It is important to keep up to
date with best practices in key management and
cryptography to ensure that the implementation is
robust and secure.

58> what about MasterKey?

In the context of Bitcoin, a Master Key is
typically a hierarchical deterministic (HD) key
used to generate a sequence of private keys, which
are in turn used to sign transactions or perform
other cryptographic operations. HD keys are used
to derive a series of keys from a single "master"
seed value, making them a convenient way to manage
a large number of keys.

When implementing a MasterKey, it is important to
use a cryptographically secure random number
generator to generate the initial seed value, and
to ensure that the seed value is kept
secure. Additionally, it is important to properly
manage the derived keys, including securely
storing them and protecting them from unauthorized
access.

Overall, the main considerations when implementing
a MasterKey are ensuring the security and
integrity of the seed value, and properly managing
the derived keys to prevent unauthorized access or
loss of keys.

59> what about Crypter?

When using the Crypter struct, it is important to
properly set the encryption key using the
`set_key` or `set_key_from_passphrase` methods
before attempting to encrypt or decrypt
data. Additionally, it is important to securely
store any encryption keys and use proper key
management practices to prevent unauthorized
access to sensitive data.

60> lets go into these last three answers in more
technical detail -- what information can you
provide? what is the relevant mathematics?

Certainly!

Let's start with KeyingMaterial. In cryptography,
key derivation functions (KDFs) are used to derive
secret keys from a given master key or
password. One popular KDF is PBKDF2
(Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2), which
takes a master key and a salt as input and
produces a derived key.

In the context of KeyingMaterial in
bitcoin-crypter, we see that
`bytes_to_keysha512aes` is being used to derive
a key from a given passphrase. The
`bytes_to_keysha512aes` function implements the
PBKDF2 algorithm using SHA-512 as the hashing
function and AES-256 in CBC mode for encryption.

The PBKDF2 algorithm itself involves iterating
a pseudorandom function (in this case, SHA-512)
over the input password and salt a certain number
of times, producing a derived key of the desired
length. The number of iterations is a parameter
that can be adjusted to increase the computational
cost of deriving the key and thus make brute-force
attacks more difficult.

Next, let's look at MasterKey. In the context of
bitcoin-crypter, the MasterKey struct is
essentially just a wrapper around a symmetric
encryption key. When we call
`set_key_from_passphrase` on a MasterKey object,
we use the `bytes_to_keysha512aes` function we
talked about earlier to derive a key from a given
passphrase. This derived key is then stored in the
MasterKey object and can be used for symmetric
encryption and decryption.

Finally, let's look at Crypter. The Crypter struct
is essentially a wrapper around the OpenSSL EVP
symmetric encryption library. EVP provides
a high-level API for performing symmetric
encryption and decryption using various algorithms
(e.g. AES-256-CBC, ChaCha20-Poly1305, etc.). When
we call `encrypt_secret` or `decrypt_secret` on
a Crypter object, we are using the EVP API to
perform the encryption or decryption operation.

The mathematics behind symmetric encryption
algorithms like AES and ChaCha20-Poly1305 are
quite complex and beyond the scope of this
discussion. However, the basic idea is that these
algorithms use a symmetric key (such as the key
derived by `bytes_to_keysha512aes` and stored in
a MasterKey object) to transform plaintext into
ciphertext (encryption) or vice versa
(decryption). The goal is to make it difficult for
an attacker to recover the plaintext without
knowing the key.

In summary, KeyingMaterial, MasterKey, and Crypter
are all involved in the process of deriving and
using symmetric encryption keys for the purpose of
encrypting and decrypting sensitive data in the
bitcoin system. The underlying mathematics
involves key derivation functions, pseudorandom
functions, and symmetric encryption
algorithms. Proper implementation and use of these
constructs is crucial for maintaining the security
and integrity of the system.
