# `bitcoin-signingprovider`

This Rust crate provides functionality related to
signing transactions in the Bitcoin system. It is
part of a direct translation of the Bitcoin
codebase from C++ to Rust, and some function
bodies may still be in the process of translation.

## Overview

The crate contains various modules and types
related to signing transactions. Key providers,
for example, are types that provide public keys,
private keys, or both, and can be used by signing
providers to sign transactions. The crate provides
several key provider types, such as
`ConstPubkeyProvider`, `BIP32PubkeyProvider`, and
`OriginPubkeyProvider`.

Signing providers, in turn, use key providers to
sign transactions. The crate provides several
signing provider types, such as
`FlatSigningProvider`, `FillableSigningProvider`,
and `HidingSigningProvider`. The
`FlatSigningProvider` type can sign transactions
directly, while the `FillableSigningProvider` type
can be used to add signatures to
a partially-signed transaction. The
`HidingSigningProvider` type can be used to hide
the presence of certain inputs in a transaction,
to achieve privacy.

## Here are ten questions and answers about the `bitcoin-signingprovider` crate:

1. What is the `AddressDescriptor` struct in the
   `bitcoin-signingprovider` crate?

    - The `AddressDescriptor` struct is a type of
      descriptor used to describe the structure of
      Bitcoin addresses and how to derive keys and
      scripts for them.

2. What is the `DescriptorCache` struct used for?

    - The `DescriptorCache` struct is used to
      cache derived extended public keys in order
      to speed up operations that require them.

3. What is the `FillableSigningProvider` struct
   used for?

    - The `FillableSigningProvider` struct is
      a type of signing provider that allows keys
      and scripts to be added or removed
      dynamically.

4. What is the `ConstPubkeyProvider` struct used
   for?

    - The `ConstPubkeyProvider` struct is a type
      of pubkey provider that returns a fixed
      public key.

5. What is the `WSHDescriptor` struct used for?

    - The `WSHDescriptor` struct is a type of
      descriptor used to describe the structure of
      a P2WSH (Pay-to-Witness-Script-Hash) Bitcoin
      address and how to derive keys and scripts
      for it.

6. What is the
   `MutableTransactionSignatureCreator` struct
   used for?

    - The `MutableTransactionSignatureCreator`
      struct is a type of signature creator that
      allows the signature hash type to be changed
      dynamically.

7. What is the `PubkeyProvider` trait used for?

    - The `PubkeyProvider` trait is a trait that
      defines methods for returning public keys.

8. What is the `BIP32PubkeyProvider` struct used
   for?

    - The `BIP32PubkeyProvider` struct is a type
      of pubkey provider that returns a public key
      derived from a BIP32 extended public key.

9. What is the `MultisigDescriptor` struct used
   for?

    - The `MultisigDescriptor` struct is a type of
      descriptor used to describe the structure of
      a multisig Bitcoin address and how to derive
      keys and scripts for it.

10. What is the `ComboDescriptor` struct used for?

    - The `ComboDescriptor` struct is a type of
      descriptor used to describe the structure of
      a P2SH-P2WPKH
      (Pay-to-Witness-Public-Key-Hash) Bitcoin
      address and how to derive keys and scripts
      for it.

147> thanks -- what constitutes a key provider?

A key provider is a software component that is
responsible for providing cryptographic keys to be
used for signing transactions or messages. In the
context of Bitcoin, a key provider can generate,
store, and manage Bitcoin private keys, which are
used to sign transactions to transfer Bitcoin
between addresses. Key providers can be
implemented in various ways, such as software
wallets, hardware wallets, or even paper
wallets. They can also support different key
derivation schemes, such as BIP32 or BIP39, which
allow for hierarchical deterministic key
generation and backup.

148> thanks -- what else should we know about this
crate? are there any gotchas?

The `bitcoin-signingprovider` crate is an
essential component of the Bitcoin system,
responsible for providing the necessary
cryptographic signing capabilities needed to
verify and process transactions. However, there
are a few important things to keep in mind when
working with this crate:

1. Security is paramount: As with any
   cryptography-related code, security is of
   utmost importance. It's crucial to ensure that
   your implementation is secure and that you
   follow best practices when handling sensitive
   information like private keys.

2. Compatibility is key: When working with
   a complex system like Bitcoin, it's important
   to ensure that your implementation is
   compatible with the larger network. This
   includes compatibility with other software and
   hardware wallets, as well as the ability to
   work with various transaction types and script
   templates.

3. Keep up-to-date: The Bitcoin network is
   constantly evolving, with new features and
   updates being released regularly. It's
   important to stay up-to-date with the latest
   developments and changes to ensure that your
   implementation remains current and functional.

4. Documentation is essential: Given the
   complexity of the Bitcoin system, it's
   essential to have clear and comprehensive
   documentation for your implementation. This
   includes detailed explanations of the various
   components, as well as instructions for how to
   use the code and how to handle any errors that
   may arise.

Overall, while working with the
`bitcoin-signingprovider` crate can be complex and
challenging, it's also essential for ensuring the
security and functionality of the Bitcoin
network. With careful attention to detail and
a commitment to best practices, this crate can be
a valuable tool for any developer working with
Bitcoin.

149> could you teach me about the interface
provided?

Certainly! The `bitcoin-signingprovider` crate
provides several traits and structs that allow for
managing and creating Bitcoin transaction signing
providers. Here are some of the key components:

- `SigningProvider`: A trait that provides methods
  for signing Bitcoin transactions. This can be
  implemented by any struct that is capable of
  signing transactions.

- `PubkeyProvider`: A trait that provides methods
  for retrieving public keys used for signing
  Bitcoin transactions. This can be implemented by
  any struct that is capable of providing public
  keys.

- `KeyMap`: A struct that maps key IDs to their
  respective private keys.

- `ScriptMap`: A struct that maps script templates
  to their respective scripts.

- `FillableSigningProvider`: A struct that
  implements the `SigningProvider` trait and can
  be filled with keys and scripts as needed.

- `ExternalSignerScriptPubKeyMan`: A struct that
  manages communication with an external signer,
  which can be used to sign Bitcoin transactions.

These components can be used together to create
custom Bitcoin transaction signing providers that
can be used in various contexts. The
`FillableSigningProvider` is particularly useful,
as it allows for dynamic key and script management
during the signing process. Additionally, the
`ExternalSignerScriptPubKeyMan` can be used to
interface with external hardware or software
signers.

Overall, the `bitcoin-signingprovider` crate
provides a powerful interface for managing Bitcoin
transaction signing, with a variety of
customizable options to suit different use cases.
