Note from translation author:

Greetings!

I am happy to announce the task of translating
this codebase is now parallelized.

Earlier, I divided the program into smaller units
to create a modular structure.

This structure will be easy for anyone to read,
work with, integrate, and use.

After laying the foundation, I began to translate
each subcomponent in alphabetical order.

However, I soon realized that this task could be
accelerated by parallelizing it.

I have kept *everything* (from a functional and
logical perspective) how I found it -- in commit
ab25ef8c7f767258d5fe44f53b35ad8bd51ed5cd from the
original c++ codebase.

This may be independently verified.  

Many of the function bodies are Rust scaffolding,
wrapping todo!() blocks and commented C++ code.

The functionality of the codebase will become
testable once the rest of the program is
translated.

All tests, benchmarks, and fuzzes from the
original project (at the noted C++ commit) are
included.

I hope this translation process challenges and
strengthens the antifragility properties of the
system.

Please see the TODO file for notes on the best way
to complete the translation.

Additionally, there is a CHOMPER file for notes on
the transpiler I have created for this purpose.

Although I will attend to other work for a few
months, I plan to return to this project (as of
January 2023).

On that day, I hope we and the Rust programs we
write will speak Bitcoin with each other.

best regards,

-klebs
