# `bitcoin-qt`

This Rust crate is a direct translation of the
Bitcoin codebase from C++ to Rust. It contains
a collection of subcomponents used in the Bitcoin
system, including `AddressBookPage`,
`AddressTableModel`, `CoinControlDialog`,
`PeerTableModel`, `RPCConsole`, `SendCoinsDialog`,
`TransactionTableModel`, `WalletController`, and
many others.

Note that while the translation process is
ongoing, it is possible that some function bodies
are still being translated. As such, no part of
this crate can be considered finished and working
properly at this time.

While there may not be any specific mathematical
equations or concepts involved in the `bitcoin-qt`
crate, it is an essential part of the Bitcoin
system, which relies on complex cryptographic
algorithms to ensure the security and integrity of
its transactions.

Overall, the `bitcoin-qt` crate represents
a significant effort to bring the power and
functionality of Bitcoin to Rust developers, and
is an important contribution to the world of
blockchain technology.

2> thanks -- could you teach me about the
interface?

Certainly! The `bitcoin-qt` crate provides a set
of Rust APIs that enable developers to interact
with various components of the Bitcoin
system. Here's a brief overview of some of the key
interfaces provided by this crate:

- `AddressBookPage`: A widget that displays a list
  of Bitcoin addresses and associated labels. It
  allows users to add, edit, and delete addresses,
  as well as sort and filter the list based on
  various criteria.

- `AddressTableModel`: A model that stores
  a collection of Bitcoin addresses and associated
  metadata, such as labels and transaction
  counts. It provides methods for adding, editing,
  and removing addresses, as well as for sorting
  and filtering the list.

- `CoinControlDialog`: A dialog that allows users
  to control which coins are used to fund
  a particular transaction. It displays a list of
  available coins and allows users to select which
  ones to use based on various criteria, such as
  age, size, and number of confirmations.

- `PeerTableModel`: A model that stores
  a collection of Bitcoin network peers and
  associated metadata, such as IP addresses, port
  numbers, and version numbers. It provides
  methods for adding, editing, and removing peers,
  as well as for sorting and filtering the list.

- `RPCConsole`: A console that allows users to
  interact with the Bitcoin daemon using the
  JSON-RPC API. It provides a command-line
  interface for sending requests to the daemon and
  receiving responses.

- `SendCoinsDialog`: A dialog that allows users to
  send Bitcoin to another address. It allows users
  to specify the recipient address, the amount to
  send, and the transaction fee, and provides
  options for controlling the priority of the
  transaction.

- `TransactionTableModel`: A model that stores
  a collection of Bitcoin transactions and
  associated metadata, such as inputs, outputs,
  and fees. It provides methods for adding,
  editing, and removing transactions, as well as
  for sorting and filtering the list.

- `WalletController`: A controller that manages
  a Bitcoin wallet, including creating and loading
  wallets, managing keys and addresses, and
  sending and receiving transactions. It provides
  methods for performing various wallet-related
  tasks, as well as for interacting with the
  Bitcoin daemon using the JSON-RPC API.

These are just a few examples of the interfaces
provided by the `bitcoin-qt` crate. Each of these
interfaces includes a set of Rust functions and
methods that enable developers to interact with
the underlying functionality in a type-safe and
efficient manner.

3> thanks, could you keep going?

Sure! Here are a few more interfaces provided by
the `bitcoin-qt` crate:

- `ProgressBar`: A widget that displays a progress
  bar with a label indicating the progress of
  a particular task, such as syncing with the
  Bitcoin network or loading a large transaction.

- `QValidatedLineEdit`: A widget that provides
  a single-line text editor with support for input
  validation, such as ensuring that a Bitcoin
  address is valid or that a transaction fee is
  within a certain range.

- `ThemedLabel`: A widget that displays a label
  with a specified font and color scheme, which
  can be customized to match the look and feel of
  the rest of the application.

- `TrafficGraphWidget`: A widget that displays
  a graph of network traffic for the Bitcoin
  daemon, including the number of bytes sent and
  received over time.

- `Unit`: An enum that represents a Bitcoin
  denomination, such as "BTC" or "mBTC". It
  provides methods for converting between
  different denominations, as well as for
  formatting and parsing Bitcoin amounts.

- `WalletView`: A view that displays a graphical
  representation of a Bitcoin wallet, including
  the current balance, recent transactions, and
  addresses. It allows users to send and receive
  Bitcoin, as well as to manage their keys and
  addresses.

- `WinShutdownMonitor`: A monitor that detects
  when the Windows operating system is shutting
  down and initiates a clean shutdown of the
  Bitcoin daemon to ensure that all data is saved
  properly.

These interfaces, along with many others provided
by the `bitcoin-qt` crate, enable developers to
build robust, user-friendly Bitcoin applications
in Rust. By providing a high-level, type-safe
interface to the Bitcoin system, this crate makes
it easier than ever for developers to integrate
Bitcoin into their applications and services.

4> thanks, could you keep going?

Certainly! Here are a few more interfaces provided
by the `bitcoin-qt` crate:

- `AddressTableEntry`: A data structure that
  represents a Bitcoin address, including the
  address itself, a label, and the number of
  transactions associated with the address.

- `CSVModelWriter`: A utility that writes
  a `QAbstractItemModel` to a CSV file, which can
  be imported into a spreadsheet or other data
  analysis tool.

- `FreespaceChecker`: A utility that checks the
  available disk space on the system and emits
  signals indicating the current status, such as
  "OK" or "low space warning".

- `HelpMessageDialog`: A dialog that displays
  a help message or tutorial for a particular
  feature or function in the application.

- `ModalOverlay`: A widget that displays
  a semi-transparent overlay over the rest of the
  application, which can be used to indicate that
  a long-running task is in progress.

- `PlatformStyle`: A style sheet that provides
  a platform-specific look and feel for the
  application, including colors, fonts, and
  icons. It allows the application to blend in
  seamlessly with the underlying operating system.

- `QRImageWidget`: A widget that displays a QR
  code for a particular Bitcoin address or
  transaction, which can be scanned with a mobile
  device to initiate a transaction.

- `StatusLevel`: An enum that represents the
  severity level of a status message, such as
  "info", "warning", or "error". It provides
  methods for formatting and displaying status
  messages with the appropriate color and icon.

- `TranslatedStrings`: A collection of translated
  strings for the application, which can be used
  to provide localized versions of menus, dialogs,
  and other interface elements.

These interfaces, along with many others provided
by the `bitcoin-qt` crate, enable developers to
build powerful and feature-rich Bitcoin
applications in Rust. Whether you are building
a simple wallet or a complex trading platform, the
`bitcoin-qt` crate provides the tools and APIs you
need to get the job done.
