## bitcoinleveldb-util Crate Description

### `bitcoinleveldb-util`

This crate provides utility types and functions
used in other sub-components of the Bitcoin
system. It includes the `NoDestructor` type and
related `NoDestructorTest` functions, which are
used to ensure that certain objects are not
accidentally destructed during program execution.

Notice: "This crate is part of a direct
translation from C++ to Rust of the bitcoin
core. As such, some of the function bodies may
still be in the process of translation. Please
note that this system will become testable once
the translation process is complete"

### `DoNotDestruct`

A wrapper type used to indicate that an object
should not be destructed. This type is used in
conjunction with `NoDestructor` to ensure that
certain objects are not accidentally destructed
during program execution.

### `NoDestructor`

A type used to store objects that should not be
destructed. This type is used in conjunction with
`DoNotDestruct` to ensure that certain objects are
not accidentally destructed during program
execution.

### `NoDestructorTest`

A set of functions used to test the `NoDestructor`
type and related functionality. These tests ensure
that objects stored in a `NoDestructor` are not
destructed during program execution, even in the
event of an exception or other unexpected
behavior.

### `get_name`

A function that returns the name of an
object. This function is used to provide
a consistent naming convention for objects
throughout the Bitcoin system.

### `name`

A type that represents the name of an object. This
type is used in conjunction with `get_name` to
provide a consistent naming convention for objects
throughout the Bitcoin system.

### `usage`

A type that represents the usage of an
object. This type is used in conjunction with
`get_name` to provide a consistent usage
convention for objects throughout the Bitcoin
system.

### `instance_storage_`

A global variable used to store instances of the
`NoDestructor` type. This variable is used to
ensure that objects stored in a `NoDestructor` are
not accidentally destructed during program
execution.

87> which utilities do we use in leveldb?

The `bitcoinleveldb-util` crate provides various
utility functions and types that are used
throughout the LevelDB implementation. Some of
these utilities include `NoDestructor`,
`DoNotDestruct`, and `Usage`, which are used for
memory management and object destruction, and
`get_name` and `name`, which are used to retrieve
and store the names of various components of the
database. These utilities are used in various
parts of the LevelDB implementation, including the
block cache, the iterator implementation, and the
file reader and writer.
