# bitcoin-merkle crate description

## Description

The `bitcoin-merkle` crate is a Rust
implementation of the Merkle tree and Merkle block
algorithms used in the Bitcoin system. It is
a direct translation of the corresponding codebase
from C++ to Rust.

The crate provides functions for constructing
Merkle trees and computing Merkle roots, as well
as constructing and verifying Merkle blocks. The
`MerkleBlock` struct represents a block in the
Bitcoin blockchain and contains the transaction
hashes, Merkle root, and other metadata needed for
block validation. The `PartialMerkleTree` struct
represents a partial Merkle tree, which is used to
compactly represent a subset of the transactions
in a block.

## Mathematical Ideas

The Merkle tree is a binary tree of hashes, where
each non-leaf node is the hash of its two child
nodes concatenated together. The root node of the
tree is the hash of all the transaction hashes in
the block. This allows for efficient and secure
verification of whether a transaction is included
in a block.

The Merkle block algorithm uses the Merkle tree to
construct a compact representation of a subset of
transactions in a block. This reduces the amount
of data that needs to be transmitted and stored
while still allowing for efficient verification of
whether a transaction is included in the block.

The `calc_tree_width` function calculates the
width of a complete Merkle tree given the number
of leaf nodes. This is used to determine the
number of non-leaf nodes in the tree, which
affects the efficiency of Merkle root computation.

## Usage

To construct a Merkle tree and compute the Merkle
root, use the `traverse_and_build` function. To
construct a partial Merkle tree and extract the
matching transaction hashes, use the
`traverse_and_extract` function. The
`extract_matches` function can be used to extract
the actual transactions corresponding to the
matching transaction hashes.

The `MerkleBlock` struct contains the transaction
hashes, Merkle root, and other metadata needed for
block validation. The `PartialMerkleTree` struct
represents a partial Merkle tree and contains the
hash of the Merkle root, the number of leaf nodes,
and the hashes and flags used to construct the
tree.

## Limitations

This crate is a work in progress and some function
bodies may still be in the process of translation.

110> thanks -- could you tell me more about this
domain of computer science? please define all
relevant terms clearly, and write any mathematical
equations in unicode

Sure! The domain of computer science related to
Merkle trees and Merkle proofs is known as
"hash-based cryptography". In this field, hash
functions are used to create hash values for data,
which are then used to authenticate and verify the
integrity of that data. Merkle trees are
a specific type of hash tree that are commonly
used in this field.

A Merkle tree is a binary tree of hash values,
where each leaf node represents a piece of data
and each non-leaf node represents the hash of its
two child nodes. The root of the tree represents
the overall hash of all the data. Merkle trees
have the property that any change to the data
requires a change to the entire branch from that
data to the root, making them useful for verifying
the integrity of large datasets.

Merkle proofs are a way of verifying that
a particular piece of data is part of a Merkle
tree without having to download the entire
tree. A Merkle proof is a list of hashes that
starts at the leaf node containing the data and
goes up to the root of the tree. By hashing the
data and combining it with the other hashes in the
proof, it is possible to recreate the root hash
and verify that the data is part of the tree.

Mathematically, a Merkle tree can be represented
as a binary tree where each node is labelled with
a hash value. Given a set of data {d1, d2, ...,
dn}, the Merkle tree is constructed recursively as
follows:

1. Create a leaf node for each data element,
   labelled with the hash of the data: H(di)

2. If there are an odd number of leaf nodes,
   duplicate the last one to create an even
   number.

3. Pair up the leaf nodes and create a parent node
   for each pair, labelled with the hash of their
   concatenation: H(H(d2i-1) || H(d2i))

4. Repeat step 3 until there is only one node
   left, which is the root of the tree.

Merkle proofs can be constructed by traversing the
tree from the leaf containing the desired data to
the root, and including the hash of each node
along the way that is not part of the direct
path. The resulting list of hashes, combined with
the hash of the desired data, can be used to
verify that the data is part of the Merkle tree.

111> how does a merkle proof work?

A Merkle proof is a proof that a specific
transaction is included in a Merkle tree, without
the need to download the entire tree. It works by
providing a path of hashes from the transaction up
to the root of the Merkle tree.

To create a Merkle proof, first, the transaction
is located in the block's transaction list. Then,
the hashes of all transactions in the block are
computed and ordered in a binary tree
structure. The transaction's hash is added to the
path from the leaf node to the root node of the
tree, along with the hashes of all other nodes on
the path. This path of hashes is the Merkle proof.

To verify the Merkle proof, the receiver can start
with the transaction hash, and combine it with the
hashes of the other nodes on the path in
a specific order until they reach the Merkle
root. They can then compare this root to the known
Merkle root of the block. If they match, the
receiver can be sure that the transaction is
included in the block.

Mathematically, the verification of a Merkle proof
involves the computation of hash functions and the
concatenation of hash values. Suppose we have
a binary Merkle tree with leaf nodes representing
transactions, and internal nodes representing the
hash of their children. We can define the hash of
a node i as H(i), where i can be either a leaf or
an internal node.

To compute the hash of an internal node, we
concatenate the hash values of its children and
hash the result:

```
H(i) = hash(concat(H(left_child(i)), H(right_child(i))))
```

To verify a Merkle proof for a transaction with
hash H(tx), we start with H(tx) and apply the same
hash function and concatenation operation
repeatedly, combining it with the hash values of
the sibling nodes along the path until we reach
the Merkle root:

```
H(root) = hash(concat(H(left_child(last_node_on_path)), H(right_child(last_node_on_path))))
```

If H(root) matches the known Merkle root of the
block, the proof is verified.

112> thanks -- how much storage space does
a merkle tree take up? how many levels of the tree
are there? what about branching factors?

The storage space required for a Merkle tree
depends on the number of transactions or data
elements being hashed. The number of levels in the
tree is determined by the number of leaves in the
tree, which is equal to the smallest power of
2 that is greater than or equal to the number of
transactions.

The branching factor of a Merkle tree is typically
2, meaning that each non-leaf node has two
children. This is the most common and efficient
approach for Merkle trees. However, it is possible
to have different branching factors, which would
affect the height of the tree.

For example, if we have 7 transactions, the Merkle
tree would have 8 leaves (the smallest power of
2 greater than or equal to 7). With a branching
factor of 2, the Merkle tree would have 3 levels:
the root, one level of intermediate nodes, and the
leaf level. The intermediate nodes would have
a total of 4 nodes (2 at level 1 and 2 at level
2), and the root node would contain the Merkle
root hash, which is the combination of the hashes
of the intermediate nodes. This would result in
a total of 12 nodes in the tree.

In general, the number of nodes in a Merkle tree
is 2n-1, where n is the number of levels in the
tree. So in the example above, there are 23-1
= 7 nodes in the tree. The storage space required
for each hash depends on the hash function used,
but for most hash functions the size is fixed
(e.g. 32 bytes for SHA-256), so the total storage
space required for a Merkle tree can be calculated
based on the number of nodes and the size of each
hash.

113> could you provide an example back of the
envelope calculation for the size of an example
merkle tree in bytes?

Sure, let's consider an example where we have
8 leaf nodes, each containing a single transaction
hash. We can calculate the number of levels in the
tree as follows:

- The bottom level contains 8 nodes (the leaf
  nodes).

- The next level up contains 4 nodes (the hash of
  every 2 nodes on the level below).

- The next level up contains 2 nodes (the hash of
  every 2 nodes on the level below).

- The top level contains 1 node (the final root
  hash).

Therefore, our merkle tree has 4 levels.

The branching factor of a merkle tree is the
number of children each node has. In this example,
the branching factor is 2, since each non-leaf
node has exactly 2 children.

To calculate the size of the merkle tree in bytes,
we need to know how many hashes there are in
total, and the size of each hash. Let's assume
that the hash function used produces 32-byte
hashes (which is the case for Bitcoin). In this
example, we have:

- 8 leaf node hashes, each of size 32 bytes, for
  a total of 256 bytes.

- 4 hashes on the second level, each of size 32
  bytes, for a total of 128 bytes.

- 2 hashes on the third level, each of size 32
  bytes, for a total of 64 bytes.

- 1 root hash on the top level, of size 32 bytes.

Therefore, the total size of the merkle tree in
bytes is 256 + 128 + 64 + 32 = 480 bytes.

114> where do we find merkle trees in the context
of the bitcoin system?

Merkle trees are an important component of the
Bitcoin system and are used in several places,
including:

1. **Block headers**: Each block in the Bitcoin
   blockchain contains a header that includes
   a hash of all the transactions included in the
   block. This hash is calculated using a Merkle
   tree, which allows nodes to verify that
   a particular transaction is included in a block
   without having to download and verify all the
   transactions in the block.

2. **Bloom filters**: Bloom filters are
   probabilistic data structures that allow nodes
   to filter a stream of transactions to find
   those that match a set of criteria. In the
   Bitcoin system, Bloom filters are used by
   lightweight clients to request transactions
   from full nodes. Bloom filters are constructed
   using a set of hash functions that are based on
   the Merkle tree of the block chain.

3. **SPV (Simple Payment Verification) proofs**:
   SPV proofs allow lightweight clients to verify
   that a transaction is included in the
   blockchain without downloading the entire
   blockchain. This is accomplished by providing
   a Merkle path from the transaction to the root
   of the Merkle tree in the block header.

115> thanks -- what else should we know about
them? are there any gotchas?

Here are some additional things to keep in mind
about Merkle trees in the context of the Bitcoin
system:

1. In order to verify a Merkle proof, a node must
   have access to the block header and the
   corresponding transactions in the block. If
   a node only has the Merkle root and the Merkle
   proof, it cannot independently verify the
   proof.

2. When a node receives a block, it only needs to
   download the transactions it cares about
   (e.g. transactions related to its wallet). The
   Merkle tree structure allows a node to
   efficiently verify that a transaction is
   included in the block without downloading the
   entire block.

3. There is a tradeoff between the number of
   transactions in a block and the size of the
   Merkle tree. A larger number of transactions
   requires a deeper tree, which can increase the
   time required to verify a proof.

4. The use of Merkle trees in the Bitcoin system
   can also enable other features, such as
   simplified payment verification (SPV) nodes,
   which allow lightweight clients to verify
   transactions without downloading the entire
   blockchain.

5. It's important to note that the security of
   a Merkle tree depends on the assumption that
   the underlying hash function is
   collision-resistant. If an attacker can find
   a collision (two different inputs that produce
   the same hash), they can construct a valid
   Merkle proof that is not actually valid.

6. Finally, it's worth noting that while Merkle
   trees are an important component of the Bitcoin
   system, they are just one of many building
   blocks that work together to create the secure,
   decentralized, and trustless system that we
   know and use today.

116> what are some other nearby structures in the
domain of computer science?

In the domain of computer science, there are
several other data structures and algorithms that
are related to Merkle trees. Some of them include:

1. Hash trees: These are similar to Merkle trees
   but use a different type of hashing
   algorithm. Hash trees are commonly used in file
   systems to verify the integrity of files.

2. Bloom filters: Bloom filters are probabilistic
   data structures that are used to test whether
   an element is a member of a set. Bloom filters
   are used in Bitcoin to reduce the amount of
   data that nodes need to store about the
   blockchain.

3. Red-black trees: Red-black trees are
   self-balancing binary search trees that are
   used to store sorted data efficiently. They are
   commonly used in databases and file systems.

4. AVL trees: AVL trees are another type of
   self-balancing binary search tree. They
   guarantee that the tree is always balanced,
   which means that the worst-case time complexity
   of operations is logarithmic.

5. B-trees: B-trees are balanced trees that are
   used to store large amounts of data on
   disk. They are commonly used in databases and
   file systems to provide efficient access to
   large datasets.

Each of these data structures has its own
strengths and weaknesses, and they are all useful
in different contexts.

117> what makes merkle trees uniquely suited
towards solving this problem

Merkle trees are well-suited to solving this
problem for several reasons. First, they are
a space-efficient way to verify the integrity of
large data sets. They do not require that the
entire data set be stored or transferred, but
rather only the small set of hash values that
represent the entire data set. This makes them
very useful for applications such as file systems
or data storage, where it is important to verify
that data has not been corrupted or tampered with.

Second, Merkle trees allow for efficient
verification of specific parts of the data set. By
only requiring a subset of the hash values to be
provided, it is possible to verify the integrity
of a specific portion of the data set without
having to calculate the hash values for the entire
set. This is particularly useful in the context of
the Bitcoin blockchain, where it is often only
necessary to verify a single transaction or block,
rather than the entire blockchain.

Finally, Merkle trees are computationally
efficient to construct and verify. The time
required to construct and verify a Merkle tree is
proportional to the logarithm of the size of the
data set, which makes them much faster to work
with than other hash-based data structures such as
hash tables.

118> who was Merkle?

Ralph Merkle is a computer scientist and
cryptographer who is known for his work in public
key cryptography, hash trees, and other
cryptographic innovations. He is a recipient of
the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal and is a fellow
of the International Association for Cryptologic
Research.

119> thanks!

You're welcome! Let me know if you have any more
questions.
