## bitcoinsecp256k1-ec crate description

This crate is a Rust translation of the EC
component of the Bitcoin Core C++ library. The
crate provides functionality for elliptic curve
cryptography on the secp256k1 curve, including
ECDSA signatures and verification, ECDH key
agreement, and EC multiplication.

Elliptic curve cryptography is a cryptographic
technique that is based on the mathematical
properties of elliptic curves. The secp256k1 curve
is a specific curve that is used in Bitcoin to
provide cryptographic security for
transactions. ECDSA is a signature algorithm based
on the secp256k1 curve, and is used in Bitcoin to
provide transaction authentication.

ECDH (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman) is a key
agreement protocol that allows two parties to
generate a shared secret over an insecure
channel. The bitcoinsecp256k1-ec crate provides
functionality for ECDH key agreement using the
secp256k1 curve.

EC multiplication involves multiplying a point on
the curve by a scalar. The crate provides
functionality for performing EC multiplication on
the secp256k1 curve, including optimizations such
as precomputation of tables and the use of the
windowed NAF (non-adjacent form) representation.

The crate also provides functionality for parsing
and serializing ECDSA signatures in both compact
and DER (Distinguished Encoding Rules)
formats. Additionally, it provides utility
functions for working with elliptic curve points
and private/public key pairs.

This crate is a direct translation from C++ to
Rust of the Bitcoin Core library. As such, some of
the function bodies may still be in the process of
translation. Please note that this system will
become testable once the translation process is
complete.

128> could you teach me how ECDH works in
mathematical detail?

Sure, I'd be happy to help!

Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) is a key
agreement protocol that allows two parties to
derive a shared secret over an insecure
channel. ECDH is based on the discrete logarithm
problem, which states that given two points P and
Q on an elliptic curve E, it is computationally
infeasible to find an integer k such that P = kQ.

The ECDH protocol works as follows:

1. Alice and Bob agree on a common elliptic curve
   E and a point G on that curve. This is usually
   done ahead of time and does not need to be kept
   secret.

2. Alice generates a private key a, which is
   a randomly chosen integer between 1 and the
   order of G. She also computes the corresponding
   public key A = aG.

3. Bob does the same, generating a private key
   b and a public key B = bG.

4. Alice and Bob exchange their public keys A and
   B over an insecure channel.

5. Alice computes the shared secret S = aB = abG.

6. Bob computes the shared secret S = bA = abG.

Because of the discrete logarithm problem, an
attacker who intercepts the public keys A and
B cannot easily compute the shared secret S. In
fact, the only known way to compute S is to solve
the discrete logarithm problem, which is
computationally infeasible for large enough
elliptic curves.

In mathematical notation, the shared secret S can
be written as S = aB = a * bG = b * aG = bA. Here,
a and b are the private keys, A and B are the
corresponding public keys, and G is the base point
of the elliptic curve.

Overall, ECDH is a powerful and widely used
cryptographic protocol that provides a secure
method for two parties to derive a shared secret
over an insecure channel.

129> could you teach me about  windowed NAF
(non-adjacent form) ?

Windowed NAF (Non-Adjacent Form) is a method used
for the scalar multiplication of a point on an
elliptic curve. It is a way to represent a scalar
as a sum of powers of 2 and odd integers, with the
difference that each odd integer is required to be
at least a certain number of bits long. This
representation is called the Non-Adjacent Form
because the powers of two are not adjacent.

The windowed NAF method improves on the
traditional double-and-add algorithm by
precomputing multiples of the base point of the
elliptic curve (called "windows") and storing them
in a table. This enables a faster scalar
multiplication by selecting the appropriate
multiples from the table based on the bits in the
NAF representation of the scalar.

To obtain the windowed NAF representation of
a scalar k, we first compute the regular binary
expansion of k. Then, we scan the binary expansion
from left to right and replace each group of
consecutive ones with a window centered around the
digit containing the leftmost one. The window is
a precomputed sequence of multiples of the base
point that can be added together using only the
point addition operation.

For example, suppose we choose a window size of
4 and we want to compute the windowed NAF of the
scalar k = 53. The binary expansion of k is
110101, so we replace the two groups of
consecutive ones with the windows centered around
the leftmost ones:

1 1 01 01  ->  -3P + 5P
      1 01  ->   1P + 5P

The resulting windowed NAF representation is 
-3P + 1P + 5P.

Using the windowed NAF representation, we can
perform scalar multiplication of a point on the
elliptic curve more efficiently by precomputing
multiples of the base point and storing them in
a table. When multiplying a scalar k with a base
point P, we first compute the windowed NAF
representation of k, and then select the
appropriate multiples from the table based on the
bits in the NAF representation. The point
multiplication is then performed by adding the
selected multiples together.

The windowed NAF method is widely used in elliptic
curve cryptography and is one of the fastest known
methods for scalar multiplication on elliptic
curves.

130> could you teach me about parsing and
serializing ECDSA signatures in both compact and
DER (Distinguished Encoding Rules) ?

Sure, I'd be happy to!

ECDSA signatures can be represented in two
different formats: compact and DER. Compact
signatures are just the raw R and S values
concatenated together and encoded in a specific
way. DER signatures are encoded using the
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) and include
additional metadata.

Here's a brief overview of each format:

## Compact Signatures

A compact signature is just the raw R and S values
concatenated together and encoded in a specific
way. Specifically, the R and S values are encoded
as fixed-length big-endian integers and
concatenated together to form a single byte
string.

The byte string has a length of 64 bytes for
256-bit curves like secp256k1, where the first 32
bytes represent the R value and the second 32
bytes represent the S value.

To encode the signature in a specific way, the
first byte of the byte string is set to 0x30,
indicating that the following bytes represent
a compound structure. The next byte indicates the
length of the compound structure (in this case,
0x44, or 68 bytes). The next byte indicates the
type of the R value (0x02, indicating an
integer). The following byte indicates the length
of the R value (0x20, indicating a 32-byte
integer). The R value is then encoded as
a big-endian integer. The same pattern is followed
for the S value.

## DER Signatures

A DER signature is a more complex format that
includes additional metadata. Specifically, it is
encoded using the Distinguished Encoding Rules
(DER), a binary encoding format that is often used
to encode ASN.1 data structures.

A DER signature consists of a compound structure
that includes the R and S values as well as
additional metadata. The first byte of the
compound structure is set to 0x30, indicating that
the following bytes represent a compound
structure. The next byte indicates the length of
the compound structure. The next byte indicates
the type of the R value (0x02, indicating an
integer). The following byte indicates the length
of the R value. The R value is then encoded as
a big-endian integer. The same pattern is followed
for the S value.

In addition to the R and S values, a DER signature
includes additional metadata that describes the
algorithm used to sign the message, as well as any
additional parameters that were used. This
metadata is encoded as a sequence of ASN.1 values
that are included as part of the compound
structure.

Overall, DER signatures are more complex than
compact signatures, but they provide additional
metadata that can be useful in certain
contexts. Compact signatures are simpler and more
efficient, but they do not include any additional
metadata.

131> which utilities do we need for working with
elliptic curve points ?

When working with elliptic curves, we need several
utilities to perform basic operations such as
point addition, point doubling, scalar
multiplication, and more. Here are some of the
utilities that we commonly use:

1. Point struct: A data structure that represents
   an elliptic curve point. It typically contains
   two field elements (x, y) that define the
   point's position on the curve.

2. Field arithmetic: A set of functions that
   perform arithmetic operations on the field
   elements. These include addition, subtraction,
   multiplication, division, and modular
   reduction.

3. Point arithmetic: A set of functions that
   perform arithmetic operations on the elliptic
   curve points. These include point addition,
   point doubling, point negation, and scalar
   multiplication.

4. Scalar arithmetic: A set of functions that
   perform arithmetic operations on the scalar
   values used in elliptic curve
   cryptography. These include addition,
   subtraction, multiplication, and inversion.

5. Serialization: A set of functions that convert
   the point and scalar values to their binary
   representations. This is necessary for storing
   and transmitting the values over the network.

6. Deserialization: A set of functions that
   convert the binary representation of the point
   and scalar values back to their original
   values.

Overall, these utilities form the foundation of
elliptic curve cryptography and are essential for
implementing various cryptographic protocols such
as ECDH, ECDSA, and more.

133> which utilities do we need for working with
public/private key pairs?

To work with public/private key pairs, the
following utilities are needed:

1. **Key generation**: Functions for generating
   key pairs, such as `context_randomize` and
   `ec_seckey_export_der`.

2. **Key import/export**: Functions for importing
   and exporting keys, such as
   `ec_seckey_export_der` and
   `ec_seckey_import_der`.

3. **Public key generation**: Functions for
   generating public keys from private keys, such
   as `eckey_pubkey_parse` and
   `eckey_pubkey_serialize`.

4. **Public key manipulation**: Functions for
   manipulating public keys, such as
   `eckey_pubkey_tweak_add` and
   `eckey_pubkey_tweak_mul`.

5. **Private key manipulation**: Functions for
   manipulating private keys, such as
   `eckey_privkey_tweak_add` and
   `eckey_privkey_tweak_mul`.

6. **ECDSA signing and verification**: Functions
   for signing and verifying messages using ECDSA,
   such as `ecdsa_sig_sign` and
   `ecdsa_sig_verify`.

7. **ECDH key agreement**: Functions for
   performing ECDH key agreement, such as `ecdh`.

The `bitcoinsecp256k1-ec` crate provides all of
these utilities and more for working with elliptic
curve cryptography in Rust.

132> thanks -- what else should we know about this
crate?

The `bitcoinsecp256k1-ec` crate provides various
functions and structures for working with elliptic
curve cryptography, specifically the secp256k1
curve used in the Bitcoin system. It includes
functions for generating and manipulating public
and private keys, signing and verifying
signatures, performing ECDH key exchange, and
scalar and point multiplication.

This crate is part of a direct translation from
C++ to Rust of the bitcoin core, which means that
some of the function bodies may still be in the
process of translation. As such, it is recommended
to exercise caution when using this crate in
production environments.

In addition to the functions listed above, the
`bitcoinsecp256k1-ec` crate also includes
utilities for working with elliptic curve points,
such as point addition and doubling, point
multiplication, and windowed NAF (non-adjacent
form) point multiplication. These utilities can be
useful for performing complex cryptographic
operations involving elliptic curve points.

Overall, the `bitcoinsecp256k1-ec` crate is
a powerful tool for working with elliptic curve
cryptography on the secp256k1 curve, which is
widely used in the Bitcoin system and other
blockchain applications.
