# `bitcoin-random`

This Rust crate is a direct translation of the
Bitcoin codebase from C++ to Rust. It provides
a set of functions and utilities related to random
number generation, which is a critical component
of the Bitcoin system.

Note that while the translation process is
ongoing, it is possible that some function bodies
are still being translated. As such, no part of
this crate can be considered finished and working
properly at this time.

Random number generation is an essential part of
many cryptographic algorithms used in Bitcoin,
such as hashing, signing, and key generation. The
security and integrity of the Bitcoin system rely
on the ability to generate high-quality random
numbers that cannot be predicted by an attacker.

The `bitcoin-random` crate provides a set of
functions and utilities that enable developers to
generate high-quality random numbers in a secure
and efficient manner. These functions include
`get_rand_bytes`, `get_rand_int`, `get_rand_hash`,
`get_strong_rand_bytes`, and many others.

Many of these functions rely on low-level system
calls and hardware features to generate random
data. For example, `get_dev_urandom` reads data
from the Unix `/dev/urandom` device, while
`seed_hardware_fast` and `seed_hardware_slow` use
hardware counters and performance monitors to seed
the random number generator.

Overall, the `bitcoin-random` crate represents an
important part of the Bitcoin system, and is an
essential tool for developers who are building
secure and reliable Bitcoin applications in Rust.

6> thanks -- could you describe randomness in the
context of bitcoin?

Certainly! In the context of Bitcoin, randomness
is a critical component of the system's security
and integrity. Random numbers are used in
a variety of ways, such as generating
cryptographic keys, signing transactions, and
selecting random inputs for transactions.

The Bitcoin protocol relies on a concept called
"proof-of-work" to ensure the security of the
network. Proof-of-work is a computational puzzle
that miners must solve in order to add new blocks
to the blockchain. The puzzle involves finding
a nonce (a random number) that, when combined with
the other data in the block, produces a hash value
with a certain number of leading zeroes.

The difficulty of the proof-of-work puzzle is
adjusted periodically in order to maintain
a consistent rate of block generation. This means
that miners must continually generate large
amounts of random data in order to find a solution
to the puzzle.

Randomness is also important in the context of
Bitcoin addresses and keys. Bitcoin addresses are
generated from public keys, which in turn are
generated from private keys using a deterministic
algorithm. The security of the system relies on
the fact that it is computationally infeasible to
guess a private key from a public key or an
address. This means that the private key must be
generated using a high-quality random number
generator.

If the random number generator used to generate
Bitcoin keys or solve proof-of-work puzzles is
compromised, the security of the entire system
could be at risk. As such, it is critical that the
random number generation process in Bitcoin be as
secure and reliable as possible.

The `bitcoin-random` crate, along with other
components of the Bitcoin system, is designed to
ensure that random numbers are generated in
a secure and reliable manner. By providing a set
of high-quality random number generation functions
and utilities, this crate enables developers to
build secure and reliable Bitcoin applications in
Rust.

7> thanks -- what are the algorithms for random
number generation that we use?

In the context of Bitcoin, there are several
algorithms and methods used for random number
generation. Some of these algorithms and methods
include:

1. **Pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs):**
   PRNGs are algorithms that generate sequences of
   random-looking numbers that are actually
   deterministic and reproducible. PRNGs are often
   used in situations where true randomness is not
   strictly necessary, such as for generating test
   data or simulations. In the context of Bitcoin,
   PRNGs are used in some non-cryptographic
   contexts, such as for generating random input
   values for transactions.

2. **True random number generators (TRNGs):**
   TRNGs are algorithms that generate sequences of
   truly random numbers using physical sources of
   entropy, such as radioactive decay or thermal
   noise. TRNGs are considered more secure than
   PRNGs, as they generate numbers that are truly
   unpredictable and cannot be reproduced. In the
   context of Bitcoin, TRNGs are used in
   situations where true randomness is critical,
   such as for generating private keys.

3. **Hardware random number generators (HRNGs):**
   HRNGs are physical devices that generate random
   numbers using a physical process, such as
   thermal noise or radioactive decay. HRNGs are
   typically considered more secure than
   software-based TRNGs, as they are less
   vulnerable to attacks that can compromise the
   entropy pool. In the context of Bitcoin, HRNGs
   are used in some hardware wallets to generate
   private keys.

4. **Entropy pools:** An entropy pool is
   a collection of random data that is used to
   generate random numbers. Entropy pools are
   typically filled with data from a variety of
   sources, such as hardware events, system
   performance metrics, and user input. The data
   is then mixed and combined using various
   algorithms to produce high-quality random
   numbers. In the context of Bitcoin, entropy
   pools are used to generate random numbers for
   various purposes, such as for signing
   transactions and generating private keys.

Overall, the choice of random number generation
algorithm or method depends on the specific use
case and level of security required. In general,
the Bitcoin system relies on a combination of
software-based and hardware-based random number
generation methods to ensure the security and
integrity of the network.

8> thanks -- what sources of entropy are
acceptable?

In the context of random number generation for
Bitcoin, there are a variety of sources of entropy
that can be used to generate high-quality random
numbers. Acceptable sources of entropy include:

1. **Hardware events:** Hardware events, such as
   mouse movements, keyboard presses, and network
   traffic, can be used as sources of
   entropy. These events are typically gathered by
   the operating system and added to an entropy
   pool.

2. **System performance metrics:** System
   performance metrics, such as CPU usage, disk
   I/O, and memory usage, can also be used as
   sources of entropy. These metrics can be
   measured by the operating system or by
   specialized software tools.

3. **Environmental variables:** Environmental
   variables, such as temperature, humidity, and
   air pressure, can be used as sources of
   entropy. These variables can be measured using
   specialized hardware sensors.

4. **User input:** User input, such as mouse
   movements or key presses, can also be used as
   a source of entropy. This is particularly
   useful in situations where high-quality
   randomness is needed, such as when generating
   private keys.

5. **Hardware random number generators:** Hardware
   random number generators, such as those based
   on radioactive decay or thermal noise, can be
   used as a source of entropy. These devices are
   typically more secure than software-based
   sources of entropy, as they are less vulnerable
   to attacks that can compromise the entropy
   pool.

Overall, the key requirement for acceptable
sources of entropy is that they must be
unpredictable and statistically independent. The
more diverse the sources of entropy, the better
the quality of the random numbers that can be
generated. In addition, the entropy must be mixed
and combined using secure algorithms to ensure
that the output is as random and unpredictable as
possible.

9> thanks -- what sources of entropy are
unacceptable?

In the context of random number generation for
Bitcoin, there are some sources of entropy that
are considered unacceptable or less secure. These
sources of entropy include:

1. **Deterministic algorithms:** Algorithms that
   generate predictable or repeatable outputs,
   such as simple arithmetic operations or
   time-based algorithms, are not considered
   acceptable sources of entropy.

2. **Low-entropy sources:** Low-entropy sources,
   such as system clock values or network packet
   timestamps, are generally not considered
   sufficient sources of entropy on their
   own. These sources of entropy may be
   predictable and subject to manipulation by
   attackers.

3. **Insufficiently mixed data:** Entropy that is
   not properly mixed and combined can result in
   biased or predictable outputs. It is important
   to ensure that entropy from different sources
   is combined in a way that ensures the output is
   as random and unpredictable as possible.

4. **Weakly seeded random number generators:**
   Random number generators that are not properly
   seeded with high-quality entropy can generate
   predictable or insecure outputs. It is
   important to use secure methods for seeding
   random number generators, such as
   hardware-based sources of entropy.

5. **Insecure or compromised hardware:** Hardware
   devices that are insecure or compromised can be
   a source of weak or predictable entropy. It is
   important to use hardware that is designed to
   provide high-quality and secure sources of
   entropy.

Overall, the key requirement for acceptable
sources of entropy is that they must be
unpredictable, statistically independent, and
properly mixed and combined to ensure that the
output is as random and unpredictable as
possible. It is important to use a combination of
software-based and hardware-based sources of
entropy to ensure that the system is as secure and
reliable as possible.
