# bitcoinleveldb-status

This Rust crate is a direct translation from the
C++ code of the Bitcoin Core. The
`bitcoinleveldb-status` crate is a subcomponent of
the Bitcoin system that provides a status code and
a status message for errors that may occur during
its operation.

Notice: This crate is part of a direct translation
from C++ to Rust of the bitcoin core. As such,
some of the function bodies may still be in the
process of translation. Please note that this
system will become testable once the translation
process is complete.

## Status and StatusCode

The `Status` struct represents the status of
a Bitcoin system operation, with a `StatusCode`
indicating the type of error that occurred. These
codes are assigned with a corresponding error
message and can be checked programmatically to
handle errors in the system's operation.

## Error Handling

The Bitcoin system is designed to be highly
reliable and robust, and the
`bitcoinleveldb-status` crate contributes to this
by providing error handling mechanisms through the
use of the `Status` and `StatusCode`
structs. These mechanisms ensure that errors are
detected and handled gracefully, which can help
prevent system crashes and data loss.

## Mathematical Ideas

There are no mathematical ideas associated with
the tokens in this crate.

73> which status codes do we have in leveldb?

In LevelDB, the `StatusCode` enum defines the
following status codes:

- `Ok`: No error occurred.

- `NotFound`: The specified key was not found in
  the database.

- `Corruption`: Data corruption occurred in the
  database.

- `NotSupported`: An unsupported operation was
  attempted.

- `InvalidArgument`: An invalid argument was
  provided.

- `IOError`: An I/O error occurred while accessing
  the database.

- `MergeInProgress`: A merge operation is already
  in progress.

- `Incomplete`: An operation was not completed
  successfully.

- `ShutdownInProgress`: The database is shutting
  down.

- `TimedOut`: A timed out error occurred.

- `Aborted`: The operation was aborted.

- `Busy`: The database is busy.

- `Expired`: The requested key has expired.

- `TryAgain`: A transient error occurred, and the
  operation should be retried.

- `CompactionTooLarge`: The requested compaction
  is too large.

- `CompactionAborted`: The requested compaction
  was aborted.

- `IteratorError`: An error occurred while
  iterating over the database.

- `DatabaseDropped`: The database was dropped.

- `BatchTooLarge`: The batch is too large.

- `WriteBatchAborted`: The write batch was
  aborted.

74> which operations require a status to be
returned?

In general, any operation that can result in an
error or unexpected behavior may require a status
to be returned. In the case of leveldb, this
includes operations such as opening a database,
reading or writing data, and managing database
resources.

For example, when reading or writing data, the
status may indicate whether the operation was
successful or whether there was an error such as
a corruption in the database file. When managing
database resources, the status may indicate
whether the database was successfully opened or
closed, or whether there was an error such as an
I/O error.
