## `bitcoinsecp256k1-keys`

This Rust crate is a component of the Bitcoin
system and provides functionality for working with
public-private key pairs and X-only public keys on
the secp256k1 elliptic curve.

This crate is part of a direct translation from
C++ to Rust of the Bitcoin Core. As such, some of
the function bodies may still be in the process of
translation. Please note that this system will
become testable once the translation process is
complete.

### Mathematical ideas

The functions provided in this crate involve
operations on the secp256k1 elliptic curve, which
is defined by the equation:

y^2 = x^3 + 7 (mod p)

where `p` is a large prime number. The following
mathematical concepts are relevant to the
functionality provided by this crate:

- Key pair generation and storage

- Public key generation and storage

- X-only public key generation, comparison, and
  tweaking

### Key components

The tokens in this crate include:

- `KeyPair`: A struct representing a secp256k1
  public-private key pair, with functions for
  creating, loading, saving, and accessing the
  public and private key components.

- `XOnlyPubKey`: A struct representing a secp256k1
  X-only public key, with functions for
  generating, loading, parsing, saving, comparing,
  and tweaking keys.

- `api_test_context`: A context for running tests
  on the functionality provided by this crate.

- `extrakeys_ge_even_y`: An array of precomputed
  secp256k1 points with even y-coordinates, used
  for testing and generating key pairs.

- Various test functions for verifying the
  correctness of the key pair and X-only public
  key functionality provided by this crate.

### Usage

This crate provides functionality for generating
and working with secp256k1 key pairs and X-only
public keys, which are essential components of the
Bitcoin system. The `KeyPair` struct can be used
to generate, store, and access public-private key
pairs, while the `XOnlyPubKey` struct can be used
to generate, store, and modify X-only public keys.

It's important to note that this crate is still in
the process of being translated from C++ to Rust,
and as such some function bodies may not be fully
implemented.

159> what is an X-only public key? could you
please describe this construct in detail?

An X-only public key is a compressed
representation of an elliptic curve public key
that only includes the x-coordinate of the point
on the curve. This reduces the size of the public
key from 64 bytes to 32 bytes, making it more
efficient to use in certain contexts such as in
the blockchain space, where storage and
transaction sizes are important considerations.

To understand how an X-only public key works, it's
important to first understand how public keys are
typically represented in elliptic curve
cryptography. In most cases, a public key consists
of two coordinates, x and y, that identify a point
on the elliptic curve. However, for certain
curves, including the secp256k1 curve used in
Bitcoin, the y-coordinate can be derived from the
x-coordinate and some other information. This
allows for a compressed representation of the
public key that only includes the x-coordinate.

The x-only public key is formed by taking the
x-coordinate of the elliptic curve point and
applying a bit operation to determine the sign of
the y-coordinate. This sign bit is then appended
to the x-coordinate, resulting in a 33-byte X-only
public key. This compressed representation can be
used in place of the full public key in certain
cryptographic operations, such as signature
verification.

It's worth noting that while X-only public keys
are more efficient in terms of space, they do come
with some limitations. In particular, they can
only be used for certain cryptographic operations
and cannot be used to derive a shared secret in
ECDH (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman) key
exchange. Additionally, due to the compressed
representation, it's important to ensure that the
y-coordinate can be correctly reconstructed during
cryptographic operations. This requires some
additional verification steps that are not
required for full public keys.

160> what else should we know about this crate?

The `bitcoinsecp256k1-keys` crate provides
functions for working with public and private
keys, as well as key pairs and X-only public keys
in the context of the secp256k1 elliptic curve.

One important concept to keep in mind when working
with keys is key derivation, which is the process
of generating new keys from an existing one. This
can be done by applying a deterministic function
to the existing key, such as a hash function,
which produces a new key that is cryptographically
related to the original one. This is useful in
situations where a new key is needed for each
transaction or for each use case in general.

Another important concept is key management, which
involves securely storing and protecting keys from
unauthorized access. This can be done through
various techniques such as using hardware wallets
or by following best practices for secure key
storage.

Overall, the `bitcoinsecp256k1-keys` crate
provides useful functions for key generation,
management, and derivation in the context of
secp256k1 elliptic curve cryptography, which is
widely used in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

161> could you teach us about key derivation?

Yes, I'd be happy to explain key derivation!

In cryptography, key derivation refers to the
process of deriving one or more cryptographic keys
from a shared secret or other input material. The
derived keys can then be used for various
cryptographic purposes, such as encryption,
decryption, message authentication, and digital
signature generation or verification.

There are many different key derivation algorithms
and protocols that can be used, depending on the
specific requirements of the application. One of
the most commonly used key derivation functions is
the Key Derivation Function 2 (KDF2), which is
based on the Hashed Message Authentication Code
(HMAC) construction.

The KDF2 takes a shared secret or other input
material, along with an optional salt and other
parameters, and outputs one or more derived keys
of a specified length. The algorithm is designed
to be secure against various attacks, including
brute force attacks and dictionary attacks.

Other key derivation algorithms and protocols
include the Password-Based Key Derivation Function
2 (PBKDF2), which is specifically designed for
deriving keys from passwords, and the HKDF
(HMAC-based Key Derivation Function), which is
a more flexible and secure key derivation
algorithm that can be used in a wide range of
applications.

In the context of bitcoin, key derivation is used
extensively in the process of generating and
managing bitcoin addresses and private keys. For
example, the hierarchical deterministic (HD)
wallet protocol is based on a key derivation
algorithm that allows a master seed to be used to
derive a virtually unlimited number of child keys,
each of which can be used to generate a unique
bitcoin address.

Overall, key derivation is an important concept in
cryptography that is used in a wide range of
applications, including bitcoin and other
cryptocurrencies. By deriving cryptographic keys
from shared secrets or other input material, key
derivation algorithms enable secure and efficient
communication and information exchange.
