# bitcoinleveldb-key

This Rust crate is a direct translation of the
Bitcoin Core C++ codebase for the key-related
components used in LevelDB.

Notice: This crate is part of a direct translation
from C++ to Rust of the bitcoin core. As such,
some of the function bodies may still be in the
process of translation. Please note that this
system will become testable once the translation
process is complete.

## Tokens

### InternalFilterPolicy

This is an internal filter policy used in LevelDB.

### InternalKey

This is an internal key used for sorting keys in
LevelDB.

### InternalKeyComparator

This is an internal comparator used for sorting
internal keys in LevelDB.

### KVMap

This is a map of key-value pairs used in LevelDB.

### KVMapConstIterator

This is a constant iterator for a key-value map
used in LevelDB.

### LookupKey

This is a lookup key used for searching in
LevelDB.

### ParsedInternalKey

This is a parsed internal key used for sorting
internal keys in LevelDB.

### SequenceNumber

This is a sequence number used in LevelDB.

### TLLessThan

This is a comparator used for sorting internal
keys in LevelDB.

### ValueType

This is the value type used in LevelDB.

### and

This is a logical AND operator used in LevelDB.

### append_internal_key

This function is used to append an internal key to
a buffer.

### clear

This function is used to clear an internal key.

### compare

This function is used to compare two slices.

### compare_internal_key

This function is used to compare two internal
keys.

### compare_slices

This function is used to compare two slices.

### create_filter

This function is used to create a filter.

### debug_string

This function is used to create a debug string for
an internal key.

### decode_from

This function is used to decode an internal key
from a slice.

### default

This function is used to create a default internal
key comparator.

### drop

This function is used to drop an internal key.

### encode

This function is used to encode an internal key to
a buffer.

### extract_user_key

This function is used to extract the user key from
an internal key.

### find_short_successor

This function is used to find the shortest
separator for two internal keys.

### find_shortest_separator

This function is used to find the short successor
for an internal key.

### internal_key

This function is used to create an internal key.

### internal_key_encoding_length

This function is used to compute the encoding
length of an internal key.

### invoke

This function is used to invoke an internal key.

### is

This function is used to determine if a value type
is valid.

### key

This function is is used to create a key.

### key_may_match

This function is used to determine if a key may
match a filter.

### memtable_key

This function is used to create a memtable key.

### name

This function is used to get the name of an
internal filter policy.

### pack_sequence_and_type

This function is used to pack a sequence number
and a value type.

### parse_internal_key

This function is used to parse an internal key
from a slice.

### set_from

This function is used to set the value of an
internal key.

### user_comparator

This function is used to get the user comparator
from an internal key.

### user_key

This function is used to get the user key from an
internal key.

### value

This function is used to create a value.

### FormatTest

This is a test suite for formatting keys in
LevelDB.

### dbdbformat_test_main

This is the main test function for formatting keys
in LevelDB.

###

34> how does this interface apply to leveldb?

The `bitcoinleveldb-key` crate provides Rust
implementations of data structures and functions
used in the LevelDB key-value store. Specifically,
it includes implementations of internal keys,
parsed internal keys, and lookup keys used for
accessing data in LevelDB. These structures are
used to represent and manipulate keys and values
stored in the database, as well as to define
ordering and comparison functions used to sort
keys in the database.

The `InternalKey` struct represents a key stored
in the database, and contains both user data (the
user key) as well as metadata used by LevelDB
(such as a sequence number and value type). The
`ParsedInternalKey` struct is used to parse an
`InternalKey` into its constituent parts,
including the user key, sequence number, and value
type. `LookupKey` is a convenience struct that
wraps an `InternalKey` and provides methods for
efficiently searching the database for a key.

The `InternalKeyComparator` struct provides
a comparison function for `InternalKey` objects
that takes into account their sequence numbers and
value types. The `TLLessThan` struct provides
a comparison function for user keys that ignores
any sequence numbers or value types.

The `create_filter` function generates a bloom
filter from a set of keys, which can be used to
efficiently test whether a key exists in the
database without having to do a disk lookup.

Overall, these data structures and functions form
the backbone of the LevelDB database, allowing for
efficient storage and retrieval of key-value
pairs.
