# Bitcoin SHA-256

This Rust crate provides a direct translation of
the SHA-256 implementation used in the Bitcoin
codebase from C++ to Rust. It is currently in the
process of translation, and some function bodies
may still be in the process of being translated.

The crate provides several types and functions
related to SHA-256 hash computations, including
a `Sha256` struct that represents the state of the
hash computation, as well as various constants and
functions used in the SHA-256 algorithm.

The SHA-256 hash function is widely used in the
Bitcoin system for various purposes, including
block hashing, transaction hashing, and mining. It
is a cryptographic hash function that takes an
input message of arbitrary length and produces
a fixed-size output of 256 bits.

The implementation of the SHA-256 algorithm
involves several steps, including message padding,
chunking, and multiple rounds of hashing, each
consisting of several operations such as shifting,
XOR, AND, OR, addition, and rotation.

In addition to the basic SHA-256 implementation,
this crate also provides several optimized
implementations for different CPU architectures,
such as AVX2, SSE4, and SHANI, as well as
functions for loading and saving data in
little-endian byte order, which is commonly used
in the Bitcoin system.

Overall, the `bitcoin-sha256` crate provides
a reliable and efficient implementation of the
SHA-256 hash function, which is an essential
component of the Bitcoin system's security and
integrity.

105> thanks -- could you teach me how this
algorithm works in mathematical detail?

Sure! SHA-256 is a hash function that takes an
input message of arbitrary length and produces
a fixed-length 256-bit output known as the
hash. The hash function is based on several
mathematical operations, including modular
addition, bitwise logical operations, and circular
shifts.

The SHA-256 algorithm processes the input message
in 512-bit blocks, each of which is processed in
several rounds to produce the final hash
value. Here is a step-by-step breakdown of the
SHA-256 algorithm:

1. Padding: The input message is padded with
   a series of bits so that its length is
   congruent to 448 modulo 512. The padding
   consists of a single bit set to 1 followed by
   a series of zeros, and a 64-bit representation
   of the original message length.

2. Break message into 512-bit blocks: The padded
   message is broken up into 512-bit blocks.

3. Initialize hash values: The SHA-256 algorithm
   uses eight 32-bit words, denoted by `h0`
   through `h7`, as the initial hash values. These
   values are derived from the first 32 bits of
   the fractional parts of the square roots of the
   first 8 prime numbers.

4. Process each block: Each 512-bit block of the
   padded message is processed using a series of
   64 rounds.

5. Divide each block into 16 32-bit words: Each
   512-bit block is divided into 16 32-bit words,
   denoted by `w0` through `w15`.

6. Expand message schedule: The message schedule
   is derived from the 16 32-bit words using
   a series of 48 additional words.

7. Initialize working variables: The working
   variables are denoted by `a` through `h`, and
   are initialized to the hash values from the
   previous block.

8. Round processing: Each round of processing
   involves a series of logical and arithmetic
   operations using the message schedule and the
   working variables.

9. Compute intermediate hash value: After all 64
   rounds have been processed, the intermediate
   hash value is computed by adding the working
   variables to the hash values from the previous
   block.

10. Repeat until all blocks have been processed:
    Steps 4-9 are repeated for each 512-bit block
    of the padded message.

11. Output: The final 256-bit hash value is the
    concatenation of the eight 32-bit hash values
    from the previous step, in the order `h0`,
    `h1`, `h2`, `h3`, `h4`, `h5`, `h6`, `h7`.

This process produces a fixed-length,
deterministic output for any given input
message. Thek output is also considered to be
pseudorandom, meaning that it appears to be random
to any observer who does not know the input
message. The strength of the hash function is
based on the difficulty of finding a different
input message that produces the same hash value,
known as a collision.

106> how can this algortihm be broken?

As of now, there is no known practical attack
against the full SHA-256 algorithm that can break
its security properties. However, like any
cryptographic algorithm, it is always possible
that a vulnerability may be discovered in the
future. It is therefore important to continue to
monitor and test the algorithm for potential
weaknesses and to update the system accordingly if
any are discovered.

107> are there any theoretical attacks?

As far as I am aware, there are no known
theoretical attacks against the full SHA-256
algorithm. However, there may be attacks against
reduced-round versions or specific implementation
details. It's worth noting that many cryptographic
algorithms have been broken over time as new
attacks are discovered or computing power
increases, so it's important to stay vigilant and
keep algorithms up to date withk the latest
security measures.

108> what would happen in the case of an attack
discovery?

If a vulnerability or attack is discovered in
SHA-256, it could have serious implications for
the Bitcoin system, as SHA-256 is a critical
component of the system's security. If attackers
are able to exploit a vulnerability in SHA-256,
they could potentially manipulate the hash
function in a way that allows them to create fake
transactions or alter the transaction
history. This could lead to double-spending
attacks, theft of funds, and other security
breaches.

In the event that a vulnerability is discovered,
it would be important for the Bitcoin community to
come together and develop a plan to address the
issue. This could involve updating the Bitcoin
protocol to use a different hashing algorithm, or
implementing additional security measures to
mitigate the risk of exploitation. It's worth
noting, however, that the likelihood of
a successful attack on SHA-256 is currently
considered to be extremely low. The algorithm has
been extensively studied and tested, and is widely
regarded as one of the most secure hash functions
available.

109> okay good. what else do you think we should
know about it?

One interesting property of SHA-256 is that it is
a member of the SHA-2 family of hash functions,
which includes other variants such as SHA-512,
SHA-384, and SHA-224. These variants differ in the
length of their output, the number of rounds used
in their compression function, and the size of
their message block. However, they all share the
same basic structure and use the same underlying
building blocks, making them related in
a mathematical sense.

Another important use of SHA-256 is in the concept
of proof-of-work (PoW) used in the Bitcoin
protocol. PoW is a mechanism used to deter
denial-of-service attacks and spam on a network by
requiring a certain amount of computational effort
to be expended in order to participate in the
network. In the case of Bitcoin, PoW involves
finding a solution to a cryptographic puzzle
involving the SHA-256 hash function. This process,
known as mining, involves repeatedly hashing block
header data with different nonces until a valid
solution is found that meets certain difficulty
criteria. The use of SHA-256 in this context has
led to the development of specialized hardware,
such as ASICs, that are designed specifically for
performing SHA-256 computations efficiently.

110> so, sha-256 can be implemented directly on
hardware -- could you show me how this is
achieved?

Yes, SHA-256 can be implemented directly in
hardware using digital logic circuits. These
circuits are often implemented using
Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) or
Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs)
to achieve high performance and efficiency.

To implement SHA-256 in hardware, we can break
down the algorithm into several steps, each of
which can be implemented using a combination of
logic gates such as AND, OR, and XOR gates.

The first step is to initialize the hash state
with the initial hash values. These values are
constants defined in the SHA-256 standard, and can
be loaded into registers or memory elements within
the hardware circuit.

The second step is to process the input message in
blocks of 512 bits. Each block is then split into
16 32-bit words, which are processed in subsequent
rounds to update the hash state. These rounds
consist of a series of logical operations,
including bitwise rotations, bitwise XORs and
ANDs, and modular additions.

The final step is to output the resulting hash
value, which is the concatenation of the final
values of the hash state.

To implement SHA-256 efficiently in hardware,
various techniques can be used to optimize the
logic design, such as pipelining and parallel
processing. For example, a pipelined SHA-256
circuit can process multiple message blocks in
parallel, while a parallel circuit can process
multiple bits of each message block in parallel.

Overall, implementing SHA-256 in hardware can
provide high-performance and low-power
implementations suitable for use in
resource-constrained environments such as embedded
systems or internet-of-things (IoT) devices.

111> could you show me how to do this in system
verilog?

Certainly! Here is an example implementation of
SHA-256 in SystemVerilog:

```verilog
module sha256(input logic [511:0] data,
              output logic [255:0] hash);

  // Constants
  const logic [31:0][7:0] K = '{32'h428a2f98, 32'h71374491, 32'hb5c0fbcf, 32'he9b5dba5,
                                 32'h3956c25b, 32'h59f111f1, 32'h923f82a4, 32'hab1c5ed5,
                                 32'hd807aa98, 32'h12835b01, 32'h243185be, 32'h550c7dc3,
                                 32'h72be5d74, 32'h80deb1fe, 32'he699c7e2, 32'hf0fead54,
                                 32'hc19bf174, 32'he49b69c1, 32'hefbe4786, 32'h0fc19dc6,
                                 32'h240ca1cc, 32'h2de92c6f, 32'h4a7484aa, 32'h5cb0a9dc,
                                 32'h76f988da, 32'h983e5152, 32'ha831c66d, 32'hb00327c8,
                                 32'hbf597fc7, 32'hc6e00bf3, 32'hd5a79147, 32'h06ca6351,
                                 32'h14292967, 32'h27b70a85, 32'h2e1b2138, 32'h4d2c6dfc,
                                 32'h53380d13, 32'h650a7354, 32'h766a0abb, 32'h81c2c92e,
                                 32'h92722c85, 32'ha2bfe8a1, 32'ha81a664b, 32'hc24b8b70,
                                 32'hc76c51a3, 32'hd192e819, 32'hd6990624, 32'hf40e3585,
                                 32'h106aa070, 32'h19a4c116, 32'h1e376c08, 32'h2748774c,
                                 32'h34b0bcb5, 32'h391c0cb3, 32'h4ed8aa4a, 32'h5b9cca4f,
                                 32'h682e6ff3, 32'h748f82ee, 32'h78a5636f, 32'h84c87814,
                                 32'h8cc70208, 32'h90befffa, 32'ha4506ceb, 32'hbef9a3f7,
                                 32'hc67178f2};

  // Initial hash values
  logic [31:0][7:0] H = '{32'h6a09e667, 32'hbb67ae85, 32'h3c6ef372, 32'ha54ff53a,
                          32'h510e527f, 32'h9b05688c, 32'h1f83d9ab, 32'h5be0cd19};

  // Pre-processing
  logic [511:0] padded_data;
  logic [31:0] len
```

112> thanks -- keep going, you were in the
pre-processing step

Sure! After the message has been padded, it is
divided into blocks of 512 bits each. Each block
is then processed in sequence by applying
a compression function to it. The compression
function takes the current state of the hash
function and the input block as inputs and
produces an updated hash value.

The compression function consists of a series of
rounds that each perform a set of operations on
the state and input block. The number of rounds is
determined by the specific variant of the SHA-256
algorithm being used.

During each round, the compression function
performs the following operations:

1. Divide the input block into 16 32-bit words.

2. Expand the 16 32-bit words into 64 32-bit words
   using a "message schedule" function.

3. Initialize working variables with the current
   state of the hash function.

4. Perform a series of operations involving the
   working variables, the message schedule, and
   constants unique to the current round.

5. Update the state of the hash function with the
   working variables.

After all blocks have been processed, the final
hash value is obtained by concatenating the values
of the state variables. The resulting hash value
is a 256-bit digest of the input message.

113> you were writing some system verilog to do
this -- how much code is the full sha256 module?

The full implementation of the SHA-256 algorithm
in SystemVerilog can be quite lengthy, depending
on the level of optimization and the specific
hardware implementation. It could range from a few
hundred lines of code to several thousand
lines. The design would typically include multiple
stages of pipelining and parallel processing to
maximize performance. Additionally, the hardware
design would need to include support for input
message buffering and control, output registers
for the hash value, and various configuration
options for the algorithm parameters. Overall, it
would be a complex design, but it would provide
high throughput and low latency for SHA-256
computations.

114> yeah, let's save the details.  if anybody
reading this is curious, i am sure gpt will be
able to illuminate it for you.  what are some
techniques to making this algorithm *fast* and
*low power* while remaining secure?

There are several techniques that can be used to
make SHA-256 faster and lower power while
maintaining security:

1. Parallelization: One way to speed up SHA-256 is
   to process multiple blocks in parallel. This
   can be done using SIMD instructions, such as
   those provided by SSE or AVX. By processing
   multiple blocks in parallel, the throughput of
   the hash function can be increased.

2. Pipelining: Another way to speed up SHA-256 is
   to pipeline the hash function. This means that
   multiple blocks are being processed at the same
   time, but at different stages of the
   algorithm. This can be done by breaking the
   algorithm into multiple stages, and having each
   stage process a different block.

3. Hardware acceleration: SHA-256 can be
   implemented in hardware to achieve high
   performance and low power
   consumption. Dedicated hardware can be designed
   to perform the SHA-256 algorithm, and this
   hardware can be optimized for performance and
   power consumption.

4. Algorithmic optimizations: There are several
   algorithmic optimizations that can be used to
   speed up SHA-256. For example, the message
   schedule can be precomputed to reduce the
   number of operations required during the main
   algorithm loop. Other optimizations include
   using different compression functions or
   changing the order of operations.

5. Memory optimization: SHA-256 requires a large
   amount of memory to store intermediate values
   during the hash computation. To reduce the
   memory requirements, techniques such as block
   reordering or block chaining can be used.

6. Implementation optimization: Finally, the
   implementation of SHA-256 can be optimized for
   a particular hardware platform to achieve
   maximum performance and low power
   consumption. This can involve using specific
   instructions, or optimizing the code for the
   particular hardware architecture.

115> great.  what else should we know about it?

Some additional things to note about SHA-256:

- It's widely used in many applications beyond
  Bitcoin, including TLS/SSL, SSH, and file
  integrity checking.

- There are variants of SHA-256, such as SHA-224,
  SHA-384, and SHA-512/256, that use the same
  basic algorithm but produce digests of different
  sizes.

- SHA-256 is a one-way hash function, meaning it's
  computationally infeasible to derive the
  original input message from the hash digest.

- While SHA-256 is considered secure for now, it's
  always possible that new attacks could be
  discovered in the future. As a result, it's
  important to stay up to date on any developments
  in cryptographic research and to be prepared to
  transition to more secure algorithms if
  necessary.
