## bitcoinleveldb-repair

The `bitcoinleveldb-repair` crate is part of the
Bitcoin system, and is a Rust implementation of
the LevelDB repair functionality.

Notice: This crate is part of a direct translation
from C++ to Rust of the Bitcoin core. As such,
some of the function bodies may still be in the
process of translation. Please note that this
system will become testable once the translation
process is complete.

### Tokens

- LogReporter
- Repairer
- TableInfo
- archive_file
- convert_log_files_to_tables
- convert_log_to_table
- drop
- extract_meta_data
- find_files
- repair_table
- repairdb
- run
- scan_table
- write_descriptor

The `Repairer` struct is the main type in this
crate, and it provides an API for repairing
a damaged LevelDB database. It contains several
methods for scanning and repairing a LevelDB
database, such as `convert_log_to_table`, which
converts a log file into an SSTable, and
`repair_table`, which attempts to repair a single
SSTable.

The `LogReporter` struct provides an interface for
logging information about the repair process.

The `TableInfo` struct contains information about
a single SSTable, such as its file number and
size.

The `archive_file` function moves a file to
a different directory, preserving its original
modification time.

The `convert_log_files_to_tables` function
converts all log files in a directory to SSTables.

The `extract_meta_data` function extracts the
metadata from a file.

The `find_files` function finds all files in
a directory that match a given pattern.

The `repairdb` function repairs a damaged LevelDB
database.

The `run` function runs the repair process on
a LevelDB database.

The `scan_table` function scans an SSTable for
errors.

The `write_descriptor` function writes a new
descriptor file for a LevelDB database.

This crate is essential for maintaining the
integrity of LevelDB databases, and is useful for
recovering from file system errors or other issues
that can cause data corruption.

78> how is the db repaired

In LevelDB, the `Repairer` component is
responsible for repairing a corrupt database. The
process involves scanning through the SSTables to
identify any data inconsistencies, and then
reconstructing the data by applying a series of
corrections.

The `Repairer` uses a `LogReporter` to record any
issues or errors that are encountered during the
repair process. Once the repair is complete, the
`Repairer` updates the metadata to reflect the new
state of the database.

If the repair process is successful, the database
should be in a consistent state again and can be
used normally. However, if the repair process is
unable to correct all of the issues with the
database, some data loss may occur. It is
therefore important to back up the database before
attempting any repairs.

79> how does corruption occur? does it occur
everywhere? or just in some places? what are the
causes? what can be done to repair the corruption?
after the Repairer does its work, what can we say
about the database?

Corruption in a database can occur due to various
reasons such as hardware failure, software bugs,
power outages, disk full errors, and many
more. Corruption can occur in some parts of the
database or in the entire database depending on
the cause of the corruption.

In LevelDB, corruption can occur due to factors
such as disk write errors, power failures, or
software bugs. The corruption can manifest in
various ways such as data loss, incomplete data,
or incorrect data.

To repair the corruption in a LevelDB database,
the Repairer module can be used. The Repairer
scans the database and tries to fix any
inconsistencies found in the database. The
Repairer can also detect and delete any corrupted
data files that cannot be repaired.

After the Repairer has completed its work, the
database can be considered consistent and ready to
use. However, it is important to note that any
data that was lost or corrupted cannot be
recovered. Therefore, it is important to have
backups of the database to prevent complete data
loss in case of corruption.

80> how can an inconsistency be fixed? how can the
Repairer be configured?

Inconsistencies can often be fixed by deleting or
repairing the affected data. The Repairer can be
configured using the `Options` parameter passed to
the `Repairer::repair_db` method.

Some of the configuration options available for
the Repairer include:

- `verify_checksums`: boolean option that
  specifies whether to verify the checksums on all
  data read from disk during the repair process.

- `max_background_jobs`: integer option that
  specifies the maximum number of background
  threads to use during the repair process.

- `max_open_files`: integer option that specifies
  the maximum number of files that can be opened
  at the same time during the repair process.

- `max_file_size`: integer option that specifies
  the maximum size of a file that can be read or
  written during the repair process.

- `paranoid_checks`: boolean option that specifies
  whether to perform additional checks during the
  repair process to detect any other possible
  inconsistencies or corruption.

By setting these options appropriately, the
Repairer can be customized to handle different
types and levels of corruption or inconsistencies
in the database.

81> what else should we know about repairer?

Here are a few additional things to know about the
`Repairer` in LevelDB:

- The `Repairer` is a low-level tool that should
  only be used as a last resort when dealing with
  data corruption issues in LevelDB. It's
  important to first attempt to recover data using
  the built-in recovery mechanism before resorting
  to using the `Repairer`.

- The `Repairer` can be run on a single corrupted
  table, or on an entire database directory. If
  run on a directory, it will attempt to repair
  all tables in the directory.

- The `Repairer` can be configured with various
  options, such as the number of threads to use,
  the maximum number of errors to report, and the
  level of checksum verification to perform. These
  options can affect the speed and thoroughness of
  the repair process, so it's important to choose
  them carefully.

- After running the `Repairer`, it's important to
  carefully verify the repaired data to ensure
  that all corruption has been resolved. This can
  be done using tools like `db_dump` and
  `db_stat`.

- It's important to make sure that the cause of
  the corruption has been identified and fixed
  before continuing to use the LevelDB
  database. Otherwise, the corruption may reoccur
  and cause further data loss.
