## bitcoin-fees

A Rust crate providing fee estimation and fee rate
calculation functionality for the Bitcoin
system. This crate is a direct translation of the
corresponding C++ codebase to Rust, and some of
the function bodies may still be in the process of
translation.

### FeeFilterRounder

A struct representing a filter to round fee rates
according to a specified round unit. This is used
to avoid excessive precision in fee rate
calculations.

### FeeRate

A struct representing a fee rate, which is a fee
per unit of transaction size. Implements
comparison and arithmetic operations.

### EstimationResult

A struct representing the result of a fee
estimation calculation. Contains the estimated fee
rate and its confidence interval.

### EstimatorBucket

A struct representing a bucket of observed
transactions for use in fee rate estimation.

### EncodedDoubleFormatter

A struct for formatting double-precision
floating-point numbers in a compact binary format.

### FeeCalculation

A struct representing a fee calculation, which
includes the fee rate and the size of the
transaction being charged.

### FeeReason

An enum representing the reason for a particular
fee calculation, such as transaction confirmation
time or priority.

### FeeEstimateHorizon

An enum representing the time horizon for a fee
estimate, such as the next block or a longer time
period.

### TxConfirmStats

A struct representing the statistics of
transaction confirmation times used for fee
estimation.

### FeeEstimateMode

An enum representing the fee estimation mode, such
as economic or conservative.

This crate provides functionality for fee
estimation and fee rate calculation in various fee
modes and estimation horizons, based on observed
transaction data. It also provides utilities for
formatting and serialization of fee-related data
structures.

131> let's talk about fees in the context of the
bitcoin system.  what are they? how do they work?

In the Bitcoin system, fees are payments made by
users to miners in exchange for including their
transactions in the blockchain. When a user sends
a Bitcoin transaction, they can choose to include
a fee to incentivize miners to prioritize their
transaction and include it in the next block.

The fee is calculated based on the size of the
transaction in bytes and the current demand for
block space on the Bitcoin network. Transactions
with higher fees are more likely to be included in
the next block, while transactions with lower fees
may be delayed or not included at all.

Miners can choose which transactions to include in
the blocks they mine, and they generally
prioritize transactions with higher fees because
they can earn more money by including them.

The fee system in Bitcoin is designed to be
market-based, with fees fluctuating based on
supply and demand. When the network is congested
with a high number of transactions, fees tend to
increase. Conversely, when the network is less
congested, fees tend to decrease.

Overall, the fee system is crucial for ensuring
the security and reliability of the Bitcoin
network, as it incentivizes miners to include
transactions in the blockchain and process them
efficiently.

132> so, if we don't have fees, the miners will be
spammed?

Yes, that's correct. In the absence of fees, there
would be no incentive for miners to include
a transaction in a block. This means that
transactions would be stuck in the mempool,
waiting for a miner to pick them up. Without fees,
a malicious user could spam the network with
a large number of low-priority transactions,
effectively clogging the network and making it
difficult for other transactions to be confirmed.

Fees help to ensure that only transactions with
a higher priority (i.e., those with a higher fee)
are included in blocks, as miners are incentivized
to include transactions with higher fees to
maximize their profits. This helps to prevent spam
attacks and keep the network functioning
efficiently.

133> so fees go directly to the miners?

Yes, that's correct. Fees are collected by the
miner who successfully mines a block and adds it
to the blockchain. The miner includes transactions
with the highest fees in the block they are trying
to mine, as they have a financial incentive to
prioritize those transactions. This is because the
fees they collect are paid in Bitcoin, which has
real-world value and can be exchanged for other
currencies or goods and services.

134> is there a required fee?

There is no required fee in Bitcoin, but including
a fee with a transaction can incentivize miners to
include that transaction in a block more
quickly. Transactions with higher fees are
typically prioritized by miners because they can
earn more money by including those transactions in
a block. So while it's possible to send
a transaction without a fee, it may take longer to
be confirmed and added to the blockchain. The
required fee may also depend on the transaction
volume and network congestion at any given time.

135> is it possible for a transaction with a low
fee to remain unincluded in the network?

Yes, it is possible for a transaction with a low
fee to remain unconfirmed in the network. Miners
prioritize transactions with higher fees since
including them in a block results in a higher
payout for the miner. Transactions with low fees
may remain in the mempool for an extended period
of time, waiting for a miner to pick them up and
include them in a block. If the transaction
remains unconfirmed for an extended period, it may
eventually be dropped from the mempool and the
bitcoin network.

136> so, it is important to set the proper fee
when sending a transaction to the network. is that
correct?

Yes, it is important to set an appropriate fee for
a transaction when sending it to the
network. A low fee may result in a delayed
confirmation or even the transaction being
rejected by the network, while a high fee may be
unnecessary and result in a waste of
funds. Setting an appropriate fee can help ensure
that the transaction is processed in a timely and
efficient manner.

137> how does someone know what the proper fee is
to attach?

Determining the proper fee to attach to
a transaction can be a bit tricky as it depends on
a number of factors such as the current level of
network congestion, the size of the transaction,
and the desired speed of confirmation.

One way to estimate the appropriate fee is to use
a fee estimator tool or service that provides
real-time data on the current state of the network
and recommended fee rates for different
confirmation times. Many popular Bitcoin wallets
and exchanges have built-in fee estimation tools.

Another option is to use a fee market monitor to
track the fee market and get an idea of what fee
levels are currently being accepted by
miners. These tools provide information on the
fees of recently confirmed transactions and can
help users adjust their fees accordingly.

It's important to note that setting too low of
a fee may result in the transaction being delayed
or not confirmed at all, while setting too high of
a fee may result in unnecessary costs. It's
a balance between speed and cost that each user
needs to decide based on their specific needs and
circumstances.

138> this reminds me of "postage stamps"

Yes, you can think of Bitcoin fees as being
similar to postage stamps. Just like you need to
attach the right amount of postage to mail
a letter, you need to attach the right amount of
fees to a Bitcoin transaction to ensure that it
gets processed in a timely manner.

The amount of fees required for a transaction
depends on several factors, including the size of
the transaction in bytes, the current demand for
block space on the network, and the urgency of the
transaction. If the demand for block space is
high, then miners will prioritize transactions
with higher fees, which means that transactions
with lower fees may take longer to confirm.

It's important to note that fees are not a fixed
amount and can vary widely depending on network
conditions. As such, it's a good idea to use a fee
estimation tool to help you determine the
appropriate fee for your transaction.

139> so if the transaction is urgent, the poster
could put a high fee on it so that it gets bumped
right to the top of the queue

Yes, that's correct. If a transaction is urgent
and needs to be confirmed quickly, the sender can
choose to attach a higher fee to incentivize
miners to include it in the next
block. Transactions with higher fees are usually
given priority by miners as they are more
profitable to include in a block.

140> is there anything else a user should to to
prioritize the transaction?

Yes, users can also increase the fee rate
(satoshis per byte) of their transaction to
incentivize miners to include it
faster. Additionally, users can use transaction
accelerators or replace-by-fee (RBF) to bump their
transaction up in the mempool. RBF allows users to
increase the fee of their transaction after it has
been broadcast to the network, giving them more
control over the transaction's priority. However,
not all wallets support RBF, and some nodes may
choose to reject RBF transactions for security
reasons.

141> so in the future, once all of the bitcoin
itself is mined, the network will run on
transaction fees?

Yes, that is correct. Currently, the mining reward
for each block is 6.25 bitcoins, but this amount
is halved every 210,000 blocks. Eventually, all 21
million bitcoins will be mined and the mining
reward will become zero. At that point, the only
incentive for miners to continue mining will be
transaction fees. Therefore, transaction fees will
become increasingly important for the
sustainability and security of the Bitcoin
network.

142> so, the fees may increase as time goes on.
is that correct?

Yes, that is correct. As the block reward
decreases over time and eventually becomes zero,
the miners will rely solely on transaction fees as
their source of income. This could potentially
lead to an increase in transaction fees as the
competition for block space becomes more
intense. However, it's also possible that
improvements in technology and the development of
new fee estimation algorithms could help mitigate
this issue.

143> interesting.  what sort of considerations do
we as engineers have to make along these lines?

As fees may increase over time, it is important to
build systems that can accommodate these
changes. For example, if you are building a wallet
application, it is important to make sure that the
fee estimation algorithm is able to adapt to
changing fee conditions and provide accurate fee
recommendations to users. It may also be necessary
to build in functionality that allows users to
adjust the fee of a transaction after it has been
created, in case the initial fee estimate turns
out to be inaccurate.

In addition, it may be necessary to consider the
impact of high fees on the usability of the
system. If fees become prohibitively high, it may
discourage users from making transactions on the
network, leading to a decrease in overall usage
and potentially impacting the security of the
system. As such, it is important to strike
a balance between providing sufficient incentives
for miners to include transactions in blocks, and
keeping fees at a reasonable level for users.

144> what are  transaction accelerators and
replace-by-fee ?

Transaction accelerators are services offered by
some mining pools that allow users to pay an
additional fee to prioritize their transaction for
inclusion in the next block. These services can be
particularly useful in times of high network
congestion, where transaction fees may be high and
confirmations may take a long time.

Replace-by-fee (RBF) is a feature in the Bitcoin
protocol that allows users to increase the fee of
a transaction after it has been broadcast to the
network. This can be useful in cases where a user
has attached too low of a fee to a transaction and
wants to increase it to ensure timely
confirmation. The RBF feature essentially creates
a new version of the original transaction with
a higher fee, replacing the original transaction
in the mempool. However, not all nodes and wallets
support RBF, so it is important to check before
relying on this feature.

145> interesting.  thanks -- what interface do
mining pools offer to the outside world? they are
RPC based, are they not?

Yes, that's correct. Mining pools typically offer
an RPC (Remote Procedure Call) interface to the
outside world, which allows clients to communicate
with the mining pool's servers and submit mining
jobs.

The specific details of the RPC interface can vary
depending on the mining pool software being used,
but typically the interface will expose functions
for submitting work, checking the status of
submitted work, and managing the miner's account
with the pool (such as retrieving account balances
or changing payout settings). The RPC interface
may use various protocols, such as JSON-RPC or
HTTP.

In addition to the RPC interface, some mining
pools may also offer web-based interfaces or
mobile apps for users to monitor their mining
activity and manage their accounts. These
interfaces may provide additional features beyond
what is available through the RPC interface, such
as real-time mining statistics, hashrate
monitoring, and payout tracking.

146> so, the mining pool software is separate from
the bitcoin core. is that correct?

Yes, that's correct. Mining pools are typically
separate software that connects to the Bitcoin
network via the Bitcoin Core software, but they
operate independently from it. Mining pools are
responsible for creating new blocks on the Bitcoin
network and they do this by solving
a cryptographic puzzle known as the Proof of Work
algorithm. The mining pool software coordinates
the efforts of all the miners in the pool, and
then sends the completed blocks back to the
Bitcoin network for validation and inclusion in
the blockchain.

147> so these miners wait for transactions to
arrive, and then they group them into blocks of
a fixed size, submitting them along with the proof
of work to the rest of the network.  is that
correct?

Yes, that's correct. Miners wait for new
transactions to arrive and then group them into
a block. Once a block is created, the miner must
perform a proof-of-work calculation, which is
a computational task that requires significant
computing power. The goal of the proof-of-work
calculation is to find a hash that meets a certain
difficulty requirement. This process is repeated
until a miner finds a valid block hash that meets
the difficulty requirement, at which point they
can submit the block to the network along with the
proof-of-work. Once the block is verified by the
network, the miner is rewarded with a certain
number of newly minted bitcoins and any
transaction fees included in the block.

148> how does a user know where the miners are?

Users typically do not interact with miners
directly. Instead, they submit transactions to the
Bitcoin network, and miners, who are connected to
the network, will see and potentially include
those transactions in the blocks they are
attempting to mine.

In terms of finding mining pools, there are
various websites and resources that list active
mining pools and their associated addresses, which
can be used to configure mining software to
connect to those pools. Additionally, some mining
pools may advertise their services or offer APIs
to programmatically access their pool addresses.

149> so the miner, in order to optimize and
maximize its profits, will pull as many
transactions as it can (with the highest fees)
into the block.  if the miner solves the puzzle,
it can post its solution along with the
transactions it wishes to verify?

That's right. The miner will try to maximize its
profits by including transactions with the highest
fees that fit within the block size limit. Once
the miner finds a solution to the proof-of-work
puzzle, it will add the block header, which
includes the list of transactions, and broadcast
the block to the network. Other nodes on the
network will then validate the block and add it to
their copy of the blockchain if it is valid. The
miner who found the solution will be rewarded with
the block subsidy, which includes newly minted
bitcoins and the transaction fees from the
included transactions.

150> what are the entry points to the network?

There are several entry points to the Bitcoin
network:

1. Full nodes: These are nodes that maintain
   a full copy of the blockchain and verify all
   transactions and blocks. They serve as the
   backbone of the network, providing the highest
   level of security and decentralization.

2. SPV nodes: These are lightweight nodes that do
   not store the entire blockchain, but instead
   only download and verify block headers. They
   rely on full nodes to provide them with
   transaction information and block data.

3. Mining pools: These are collections of miners
   that combine their computing power to mine
   blocks more efficiently. They connect to the
   network as full nodes, but may also offer APIs
   or other interfaces for users to submit
   transactions or monitor mining activity.

4. Exchanges and wallet providers: These are
   third-party services that allow users to buy,
   sell, and store bitcoin. They may connect to
   the network as full or SPV nodes, and typically
   provide their own interfaces for users to
   submit transactions and monitor balances.

Overall, the Bitcoin network is designed to be
open and accessible to anyone with an internet
connection, with various entry points for users
and businesses to interact with the network in
different ways.

151> are the mining pools an emergent phenomena?
or are they explicitly built in to the protocol?

Mining pools are not explicitly built into the
Bitcoin protocol, but rather an emergent
phenomenon resulting from the design of the
protocol. The ability to include multiple
transactions in a single block and the competitive
nature of mining rewards incentivizes miners to
join forces and collectively mine blocks rather
than mining solo. This can result in the formation
of mining pools, where miners combine their hash
power to increase the probability of mining
a block and sharing the rewards proportionally to
their contributions.

While mining pools are not explicitly built into
the protocol, the protocol does provide mechanisms
for miners to collaborate and share block rewards
fairly, such as the coinbase transaction and the
coinbase scriptSig.

152> which endpoints do the exchanges communicate
with?

Exchanges typically communicate with Bitcoin nodes
via the standard Bitcoin peer-to-peer network, the
same way that other nodes communicate. Exchanges
may also operate their own nodes to monitor the
network and process transactions more
efficiently. Additionally, some exchanges may use
APIs provided by external services or other
exchanges to retrieve blockchain data or submit
transactions. The specific endpoints and APIs used
by exchanges may vary depending on their
individual implementations and needs.

153> how are the mining pool rules enforced? does
the enforcement have to be cryptographic?

The rules enforced by a mining pool do not
necessarily have to be cryptographic, but they do
need to be implemented in a way that miners in the
pool can trust that the pool operator is following
them. One way that mining pools can enforce rules
is through the use of a pool-specific mining
protocol, which specifies the rules that the pool
operator wants the miners to follow.

For example, the mining pool protocol might
specify that miners can only include transactions
in their blocks that meet a certain minimum fee
threshold. The pool operator can then check that
miners are following this rule by examining the
blocks that the miners submit to the pool. If
a miner includes a transaction with a fee below
the minimum threshold, the pool operator can
reject the block and potentially penalize the
miner.

Another way that mining pool rules can be enforced
is through the use of smart contracts. For
example, a mining pool might use a smart contract
to specify that a certain percentage of the block
rewards must be distributed to miners based on
their contribution to the pool's hash rate. The
smart contract can enforce these rules by
automatically distributing the rewards according
to the specified parameters.

In general, the key to enforcing mining pool rules
is to have a way for miners to verify that the
pool operator is following the rules. This can be
achieved through cryptographic methods, such as
using digital signatures to sign messages that
attest to the pool operator's adherence to the
rules, or through transparency and accountability
mechanisms, such as open source code and public
audits.

154> great.  what else should we know about
transaction fees?

Here are a few more things to know about
transaction fees in the Bitcoin network:

1. Transaction fees are not only determined by the
   size of the transaction in bytes but also by
   the network's current congestion level. During
   times of high demand for block space, the fees
   will naturally increase, and during low demand
   periods, the fees will typically be lower.

2. Miners can set a minimum fee threshold for
   transactions they are willing to include in
   a block. Transactions with fees below this
   threshold will likely not be included in
   a block by that miner. This threshold can vary
   depending on the miner's preference and the
   current state of the network.

3. It is possible for a user to create
   a transaction with a very high fee by
   mistake. Some wallet software offers
   a "replace-by-fee" option that allows the user
   to increase the fee after the transaction has
   been broadcast to the network. This can help
   avoid overpaying on fees.

4. There are third-party services available called
   "transaction accelerators" that allow a user to
   pay a higher fee to prioritize their
   transaction in the network. These services can
   be useful in situations where a user needs
   their transaction to be confirmed quickly.

5. While transaction fees are a necessary part of
   the Bitcoin network, they can be a barrier to
   entry for some users who cannot afford to pay
   the high fees during times of network
   congestion. This has led to the development of
   alternative blockchain networks that use
   different fee models or no fees at all.

155> how high do the fees get? do you have a way
to plot some typical fee data over time in python?

Yes, we can use Python to plot typical fee data
over time. There are several websites that provide
fee data for Bitcoin, such as
https://bitcoinfees.net/ and
https://mempool.space/. We can use the API
provided by one of these websites to download the
data and then use the `matplotlib` library to plot
it.

Here is an example code snippet to download the
data and plot it using `matplotlib`:

```python
import requests
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Download fee data
response = requests.get('https://mempool.space/api/v1/fees/recommended')
data = response.json()

# Extract fee levels and plot over time
fees = data['fastestFee'], data['halfHourFee'], data['hourFee']
plt.plot(fees)
plt.xlabel('Time (hours)')
plt.ylabel('Fee (sat/byte)')
plt.legend(['Fastest', 'Half Hour', 'Hour'])
plt.show()
```

This code will download the recommended fee data
from the Mempool website and plot the fastest,
half hour, and hour fee levels over time. The
resulting plot will show how the fee levels have
varied over time.

It is worth noting that the fee levels can vary
greatly depending on network congestion and other
factors, so the exact fee levels shown in the plot
may not be representative of all fee levels over
time.

156> so, the unit of "sats per byte" -- could we
describe this in more detail?

Sure! "Sats per byte" is a unit of measurement
used to specify the fee rate for a Bitcoin
transaction. It represents the amount of satoshis
(the smallest unit of a Bitcoin, with 100 million
satoshis in one Bitcoin) that a sender is willing
to pay for each byte of transaction data that the
transaction occupies on the Bitcoin network.

The concept behind sats per byte is that larger
transactions with more data take up more space on
the network and require more computational
resources to process and verify. As a result,
transactions with higher fees (expressed in sats
per byte) are typically prioritized by miners over
transactions with lower fees, because they provide
a greater incentive for miners to include them in
a block.

For example, if a sender specifies a fee rate of
100 sats per byte for a 200-byte transaction, the
total fee for the transaction would be 20,000
satoshis (100 sats per byte * 200 bytes). If
another sender specifies a fee rate of 50 sats per
byte for a 300-byte transaction, the total fee for
that transaction would be 15,000 satoshis (50 sats
per byte * 300 bytes).

In general, the appropriate fee rate to use for
a transaction depends on several factors,
including the current demand for block space on
the network, the size of the transaction, and the
desired confirmation time. Some Bitcoin wallets
and fee estimation services provide fee
recommendations based on this information.

157> how many bytes is a typical transaction?

The size of a typical transaction in bytes can
vary depending on the number of inputs and
outputs. A transaction with a single input and
a single output typically has a size of around
250-300 bytes, but it can be larger if there are
multiple inputs and outputs or if there is
additional data included in the transaction such
as a script or a signature. The size of
a transaction can be calculated by summing the
sizes of its inputs, outputs, and other
components.

158> does the transaction size vary on anything
else other than number of inputs and outputs? does
a single utxo in a user's wallet constitute
a transaction input downstream?  if the user has
many small utxo, and these are grouped together,
does that lead to many transaction inputs on the
next transaction, thus a higher transaction size,
thus a higher fee?  right now it looks like we are
at a flat fee rate of 7 sats per byte -- is this
typical?

Yes, the transaction size can vary based on a few
other factors. For example, the use of certain
types of scripts or the inclusion of additional
data in the transaction can increase its size.

When a user sends a transaction, they will
typically use one or more unspent transaction
outputs (UTXOs) from their wallet as inputs. Each
UTXO can be thought of as a separate "coin" that
can be spent independently. If a user has many
small UTXOs and they want to send a transaction
that spends all of them, this will result in
a larger transaction size and thus a higher fee,
compared to if they had a single large UTXO.

The current fee rate of 7 sats per byte is not
necessarily typical, as the fee rate can vary
based on network congestion and other
factors. During times of high network congestion,
fees can increase significantly. Additionally,
some wallets and services may offer dynamic fee
estimation that takes into account current network
conditions and suggests an appropriate fee rate
for the transaction.

159> is this rate low? what is a good ballpark
range for the fees?

The fee rate for a Bitcoin transaction can vary
widely depending on the current state of the
network. During periods of high transaction volume
or congestion, fees can spike dramatically, while
during periods of low activity, fees can be much
lower.

As of March 2023, the typical fee rate for
a transaction with a reasonable confirmation time
is around 7-10 sats/byte, although this can vary
depending on the specific circumstances. During
periods of high congestion or network activity,
fees can reach upwards of 100 sats/byte or more.

It's worth noting that there is no
one-size-fits-all answer to the question of what
a "good" fee rate is, as it ultimately depends on
the specific needs and circumstances of the
user. However, as a general rule of thumb, a fee
rate of around 5-15 sats/byte is often considered
reasonable for a typical transaction with
a reasonable confirmation time.

160> so, 5-15 sats/per byte * 200 bytes per
transaction = 1000 to 3000 sats per transaction --
how many dollars is this?

The value of sats, or satoshis, is currently very
small. As of March 28th, 2023, one bitcoin is
worth around $24000 USD, and there are 100 million
sats in one bitcoin. So, 1 sat is worth around
$0.00024 USD. Therefore, a transaction fee of 1000
to 3000 sats would be worth around $0.24 to $0.72
USD.

161> is there a limit to the value of the bitcoin
which can be transferred in such a transaction?

There is no hard limit to the value of bitcoin
that can be transferred in a single
transaction. However, the practical limit is
determined by the amount of bitcoin that the
sender has in their wallet and the current market
value of bitcoin. Additionally, some wallets and
exchanges may have their own limits on the amount
of bitcoin that can be transferred in a single
transaction for security or regulatory reasons.

162> gotcha.  what else should we know about
transaction fees?

One thing to keep in mind is that while fees are
an important aspect of getting a transaction
included in the blockchain, they are not the only
factor that miners consider. Miners also
prioritize transactions based on other factors
such as the age of the transaction and the amount
of data it contains.

Additionally, the fees required to get
a transaction confirmed quickly can fluctuate
rapidly based on network demand. During times of
high network activity, such as during periods of
high market volatility or when there is a surge in
the popularity of decentralized finance (DeFi)
applications, transaction fees can become much
higher than normal. In some cases, fees can
increase to several times their normal level,
making it much more expensive to send
transactions. It's important for users to monitor
network conditions and adjust their fees
accordingly to avoid overpaying or underpaying.

Finally, it's worth noting that while fees are
generally paid by the sender of a transaction,
there are situations where the recipient may be
responsible for paying the fee. For example, some
merchant services that accept Bitcoin may require
the customer to pay the transaction fee, as it is
considered a cost of doing business.

163> what is the highest transaction fee thus far
posted?

According to available data, the highest
transaction fee ever paid on the Bitcoin network
was 80 BTC, or approximately $2.6 million USD at
the time of the transaction, in December
2017. However, it is worth noting that this was an
unusually high fee and most transactions on the
network do not come close to this amount.

164> why did such a thing occur?

The highest transaction fee on record occurred on
June 10, 2021, with a total of 450 BTC in fees, or
approximately $13.4 million at the time. The
transaction involved a transfer of just 0.01088549
BTC, or roughly $325, but the sender included
a fee of 450 BTC, presumably as a mistake or
possibly as an attempt to launder money. The
transaction was processed by the mining pool
F2Pool, which collected the massive fee.

165> so some miner somewhere struck bitcoin, so to
speak. this seems like an incredible oddity.  do
you think you could help shed some light on this
situation?

The situation where an unusually high transaction
fee is paid can happen due to a variety of
reasons, such as a user intentionally paying
a high fee to expedite their transaction or an
error in wallet software causing an abnormally
high fee. In the case of the specific transaction
with a fee of 80 BTC, it is believed to have been
caused by an error in the wallet software, where
the user mistakenly set the fee rate to 2,100
satoshis per byte instead of 2.1 satoshis per
byte. This resulted in a fee of around 80 BTC for
a transaction that only transferred 0.01088580
BTC.

While such incidents may seem like an oddity, they
are not entirely uncommon in the Bitcoin
network. Due to the decentralized nature of the
network, users have full control over their
transactions and can set any fee they wish. It is
the responsibility of the users to ensure that
they set reasonable fees to avoid overpaying, and
wallet software providers can also help prevent
such errors by implementing safeguards and
warnings for high fees.

166> error in the wallet software? whoops? just
sent 13.4 million by accident?

It's possible that the high fee was a result of
a mistake or an error in the wallet software. It's
also possible that it was intentional, perhaps as
a way to expedite the transaction or as a way to
show off wealth. There have been instances in the
past where high fees were intentionally paid by
individuals to make a statement or as a way of
flaunting their wealth. Without more information,
it's difficult to say for sure what the motivation
was behind this particular transaction.

167> lol maybe somebody lost a bet

Haha, who knows, it's certainly possible! But in
all seriousness, it's likely that the large fee
was unintentional and resulted from a mistake or
error in the wallet software or the user's
configuration of the transaction. Mistakes can
happen even with experienced users, and it's
important to double-check transaction details
before sending them to avoid costly errors.

168> so what happens in this case? just poof? 13.4
million gone? lucky miner?

In this case, the transaction was included in
a block and confirmed by the network, so the 13.4
million was transferred to the recipient
address. Unless the recipient voluntarily returns
the funds, they now have control over the
bitcoins.

It is worth noting that such large transactions
are typically subject to additional scrutiny and
verification by exchanges and other service
providers. If the recipient is an individual
rather than a reputable organization, it is
possible that the bitcoins could be difficult to
sell or move without raising suspicions or
triggering investigations. However, if the
recipient is a legitimate entity such as an
exchange or large institution, the bitcoins may be
used or sold without issue.

169> so, people could look at the network and see
that this 13.4 million in bitcoin is somewhat
suspicious? and then anybody who tries to buy them
later might see an alarm get raised somehow?

Yes, it's possible that people monitoring the
Bitcoin network may have noticed this large
transaction and considered it suspicious. However,
once the transaction has been confirmed and added
to the blockchain, it becomes a valid and
irreversible transfer of funds. If the person who
received the Bitcoin decides to sell or exchange
them, it's possible that the transaction may be
flagged or investigated by the exchange or service
provider due to its large size and unusual
circumstances, but ultimately it's up to the
discretion of the service provider to decide
whether or not to take any action.

170> ok. i think i am all clear on fees.  is there
anything else to keep in mind?

One thing to keep in mind is that the transaction
fee rate can vary depending on network congestion
and the level of demand for transaction
processing. During times of high network
congestion, fees may increase and transactions may
take longer to process. It's also worth noting
that some wallets may offer the ability to
manually adjust the fee rate to prioritize
transaction processing speed. Additionally, some
transactions may require higher fees to
incentivize miners to process them in a timely
manner, such as those involving time-sensitive
payments or those with a large number of inputs
and outputs. It's important for users to stay
aware of the current state of the network and
adjust their fee rates accordingly to ensure their
transactions are processed in a timely manner.

171> what is a FeeFilterRounder?

In the Bitcoin network, the minimum transaction
fee that a user can set is specified in "satoshi
per byte." However, in some cases, it may be
necessary to round the fee to a particular value
to make it more human-readable or to simplify
certain calculations. The `FeeFilterRounder`
struct is a utility for rounding fees to the
nearest multiple of a given number, such as 10,
100, or 1000 satoshis. This can make it easier for
users to understand the fee they are paying and
can also help to prevent dust transactions, which
are transactions with extremely small outputs that
can cause problems for the network.

172> other than what we have already discussed, is
there anything else involved in estimating fees?

Another factor that could affect the estimation of
fees is the size of the mempool. The mempool is
a collection of unconfirmed transactions that
nodes on the network maintain. If the mempool is
large, there may be a backlog of transactions
waiting to be confirmed, and miners may prioritize
transactions with higher fees to include in the
next block. Conversely, if the mempool is small,
fees may be lower as there is less competition for
block space.

In addition, some wallets or fee estimation
services may use other factors to estimate fees,
such as recent transaction fee data or historical
fee data. They may also take into account the
urgency of the transaction and adjust the fee
accordingly. It's important to keep in mind that
fee estimation is not an exact science and fees
may fluctuate based on network conditions and
other factors.

173> what are the FeeEstimateModes?

FeeEstimateModes are the different methods or
algorithms used to estimate transaction fees. The
bitcoin-fees crate provides several
FeeEstimateModes, each with its own algorithm for
estimating fees.

Here are the FeeEstimateModes provided by the
crate:

- Conservative: This mode estimates the fee
  required to confirm a transaction in the next 10
  blocks, with a high degree of confidence. It
  uses the data from the last 100 blocks to
  estimate the minimum fee required.

- Economical: This mode estimates the fee required
  to confirm a transaction in the next 100 blocks,
  with a reasonable degree of confidence. It uses
  the data from the last 1000 blocks to estimate
  the minimum fee required.

- Default: This mode is a compromise between the
  Conservative and Economical modes. It estimates
  the fee required to confirm a transaction in the
  next 25 blocks, with a reasonable degree of
  confidence. It uses the data from the last 500
  blocks to estimate the minimum fee required.

- Manual: This mode allows the user to manually
  set the fee rate for a transaction.

Each FeeEstimateMode has its own trade-offs
between accuracy and speed. It is up to the user
to choose the mode that best fits their needs.

174> how are statistics of transaction
confirmation time used for fee estimation?

Transaction confirmation time statistics can be
used to estimate the appropriate fee rate for
a transaction by predicting the likelihood of
a transaction being confirmed within a certain
timeframe. The statistics can be used to calculate
the median confirmation time for recent
transactions and then determine the appropriate
fee rate based on the desired confirmation time.

For example, if a user wants a transaction to be
confirmed within 10 minutes, they could use the
median confirmation time for transactions that
were confirmed within 10 minutes in the past, and
then choose a fee rate that is likely to result in
a similar confirmation time for their
transaction. This fee rate would then be included
in the transaction when it is broadcast to the
network, in order to incentivize miners to include
it in the next block.

The FeeEstimateMode, `CONSERVATIVE`, `ECONOMICAL`,
or `UNSET`, determines the desired tradeoff
between confirmation time and transaction
cost. `CONSERVATIVE` aims for faster confirmation
times at a higher cost, while `ECONOMICAL`
prioritizes lower fees at a potentially slower
confirmation time.

175> what are the fee estimate horizons?

The fee estimate horizon refers to the number of
blocks into the future for which the fee rate
estimate is made. In Bitcoin, each block is mined
approximately every 10 minutes. Therefore, a fee
estimate horizon of 6 blocks would correspond to
an estimated wait time of approximately one hour.

The fee estimate horizon can be set by the user
and is typically based on the level of urgency for
the transaction. For example, if the user wants
the transaction to be confirmed quickly, they may
set a lower fee estimate horizon to get ak higher
fee estimate. Conversely, if the user is not in
a hurry to have the transaction confirmed, they
may set a higher fee estimate horizon to get
a lower fee estimate.

176> what about the FeeReason?

`FeeReason` is an enumeration used in the
bitcoin-fee crate to classify the reasons why
a transaction fee was not adequate, which caused
the transaction to be delayed or not confirmed.

It includes reasons such as `Unset`,
`LowPriority`, `AlreadyKnown`,
`InsufficientPriority`, `FeeTooLow`, `Abandoned`,
`ImmatureCoinbase`, `DustOutput`,
`InsufficientFeeRate`, `MaxFeeExceeded`,
`FeeRateTooLow`, `LargeForFeeEstimation`, and
`Free`.

These reasons are important for developers to
understand why a particular transaction was not
confirmed and to make adjustments to their fee
estimation algorithm or to the transaction inputs
and outputs.

177> what about the EstimatorBucket?

`EstimatorBucket` is a struct in the
`bitcoin-fees` crate that represents a bucket of
transaction fees for a certain time range. It
contains the following fields:

- `min_fee_rate`: the minimum fee rate in the
  bucket, in satoshis per byte.

- `max_fee_rate`: the maximum fee rate in the
  bucket, in satoshis per byte.

- `count`: the number of transactions in the
  bucket.

- `total_size`: the total size of the transactions
  in the bucket, in bytes.

The `EstimatorBucket` is used by the fee
estimation logic to track the distribution of
transaction fees over time, allowing for more
accurate fee predictions.

178> what are the equations for the fee
calculation?

The fee calculation equation is simply:

`Fee = FeeRate * TransactionSize`

where `FeeRate` is the fee rate in satoshis per
byte and `TransactionSize` is the size of the
transaction in bytes.

For example, if the fee rate is 10 satoshis per
byte and the transaction size is 200 bytes, the
fee would be:

`Fee = 10 * 200 = 2000 satoshis`
