## `bitcoinwallet-fees`

This Rust crate is part of the Bitcoin system and
provides functionality for calculating transaction
fees.

Notice: This crate is part of a direct translation
from C++ to Rust of the bitcoin core. As such,
some of the function bodies may still be in the
process of translation. Please note that this
system will become testable once the translation
process is complete.

### Tokens

- `get_discard_rate`: retrieves the rate at which
  transactions are discarded from the mempool

- `get_minimum_fee`: retrieves the minimum
  transaction fee required for a given transaction
  size

- `get_minimum_fee_rate`: retrieves the minimum
  transaction fee rate required for a given
  transaction size

- `get_required_fee`: calculates the minimum
  required fee for a transaction based on its size
  and the current fee rate

- `get_required_fee_rate`: retrieves the required
  fee rate for a given transaction size

- `FeeBumperResult`: a struct that represents the
  result of an attempt to bump the fee of
  a transaction

- `check_fee_rate`: checks whether a given fee
  rate is sufficient for a transaction to be
  included in the mempool

- `estimate_fee_rate`: estimates the fee rate
  required for a transaction to be included in the
  next block

- `feebumper_commit_transaction`: commits
  a transaction and removes it from the
  feebumper's tracking list

- `feebumper_create_rate_bump_transaction`:
  creates a new transaction with a higher fee rate
  to replace the given transaction

- `feebumper_sign_transaction`: signs
  a transaction with the given wallet

- `feebumper_transaction_can_be_bumped`: checks
  whether a given transaction can be bumped

- `precondition_checks`: checks the preconditions
  for a transaction to be sent, such as whether
  the wallet has enough funds

### Mathematical Ideas

There are no specific mathematical ideas
associated with these tokens.

Note that transaction fees in Bitcoin are
calculated based on the size of the transaction in
bytes and the fee rate, which is measured in
satoshis per byte. The fee rate is determined by
the supply and demand of block space on the
Bitcoin network. If the demand for block space is
high, then the fee rate required for a transaction
to be included in the next block will be
higher. Conversely, if the demand for block space
is low, then the fee rate required will be lower.

48> thanks -- could you tell me some more about
fees?

Sure, I'd be happy to provide more information on
fees in the Bitcoin system.

In the Bitcoin network, transaction fees are used
to incentivize miners to include a given
transaction in the next block. Miners prioritize
transactions with higher fees since it increases
their revenue, which can lead to transactions with
lower fees being delayed or not included in the
blockchain at all.

Transaction fees are calculated based on the size
of the transaction in bytes and the fee rate in
satoshis per byte (sats/B) offered by the
sender. The size of a transaction is determined by
the number of inputs and outputs it has, as well
as other factors such as the complexity of the
scripts used in the transaction.

The minimum fee rate that is accepted by nodes on
the Bitcoin network can vary depending on network
conditions such as the current level of
congestion. Transactions with fee rates below the
current minimum will typically not be relayed by
nodes, which can result in delays or
non-confirmation of the transaction.

When creating a Bitcoin transaction, it's
important to include an appropriate fee rate to
ensure that the transaction is confirmed in
a timely manner. Wallet software will typically
estimate an appropriate fee rate based on current
network conditions, but it's also possible to
manually set the fee rate if desired.

There are also various fee estimation tools and
services available that can provide an estimate of
the current minimum fee rate and suggest an
appropriate fee rate for a given
transaction. Additionally, some wallets may
include features such as fee bumping, which allows
the user to increase the fee rate of a transaction
after it has been broadcast to the network to help
ensure its inclusion in the blockchain.

49> thanks -- any caveats?

Yes, there are several caveats to keep in mind
when dealing with transaction fees in the Bitcoin
system:

1. Fee estimation is not an exact science, and the
   actual fee required to get a transaction
   confirmed in a timely manner may vary depending
   on network conditions.

2. Miners can choose which transactions to include
   in a block, and they generally prioritize
   transactions with higher fees. This means that
   if the network is congested and there are many
   transactions waiting to be confirmed,
   transactions with low fees may take longer to
   confirm or may not be confirmed at all.

3. The fees paid for a transaction are typically
   deducted from the amount being sent, which
   means that the recipient of a transaction may
   receive less than the full amount that was
   sent. It's important to take this into account
   when sending or receiving Bitcoin.

4. Some wallets may not provide users with enough
   control over transaction fees, which could lead
   to overpaying or underpaying fees. It's
   important to choose a wallet that allows for
   custom fee settings and to keep up with the
   latest fee recommendations from trusted
   sources.

5. The fee structure of the Bitcoin network may
   change over time as the block reward decreases
   and miners increasingly rely on transaction
   fees to incentivize block creation. It's
   important to stay informed about changes in the
   network and adjust fee settings accordingly.
