# bitcoin-system

This Rust crate is a direct translation from C++
to Rust of the Bitcoin Core codebase. It includes
a set of utility functions and tools for managing
and interacting with the Bitcoin network and
blockchain.

Notice: This crate is part of a direct translation
from C++ to Rust of the Bitcoin Core. As such,
some of the function bodies may still be in the
process of translation. Please note that this
system will become testable once the translation
process is complete.

While there may not be any specific mathematical
equations or concepts involved in the
`bitcoin-system` crate, some of the tokens listed
are important components of the Bitcoin protocol
and blockchain. For example, the `Output` token
represents an output in a Bitcoin transaction that
specifies an amount of Bitcoin being sent to
a specific Bitcoin address. The `decode_tx` and
`encode_hex_tx` tokens represent functions for
decoding and encoding Bitcoin transactions,
respectively. The `script_to_asm_str` and
`script_to_univ` tokens represent functions for
parsing and converting Bitcoin script code.

Overall, the `bitcoin-system` crate provides a set
of foundational tools for working with the Bitcoin
network and blockchain. These tools are used by
other components of the Bitcoin system to
implement various Bitcoin features, such as
transaction creation and validation, blockchain
synchronization, and peer-to-peer networking.

12> note that this crate is not in bitcoin-support
because of a dependency on bitcoin-primitives and
bitcoin-univalue, among others

Thank you for the clarification. It's important to
note that the `bitcoin-system` crate is not part
of the `bitcoin-support` crate due to its
dependencies on other Rust crates such as
`bitcoin-primitives` and `bitcoin-univalue`. These
dependencies provide low-level functionality and
data structures for working with the Bitcoin
protocol and blockchain, which are required by the
`bitcoin-system` crate to function properly.
