# `bitcoin-psbt`

The `bitcoin-psbt` crate is a direct translation
of the Bitcoin codebase from C++ to Rust. It is
currently in the process of translation, and it is
possible that some function bodies are still being
translated.

The `bitcoin-psbt` crate provides functionality
for working with Partially Signed Bitcoin
Transactions (PSBTs). PSBTs are a type of
transaction format that allows for a partially
signed transaction to be shared between multiple
parties without revealing the private keys
required to sign the transaction. This can be
useful in multi-party transactions or in
situations where the signer of the transaction
needs to be kept confidential.

The `bitcoin-psbt` crate provides a number of
functions for working with PSBTs, including
functions for finalizing and extracting PSBTs,
analyzing PSBTs, and precomputing PSBT data. The
crate also provides functionality for working with
PSBT inputs and outputs, including merging and
serializing PSBTs, filling and extracting
signature data, and working with external signers.

While there may not be any specific mathematical
equations or concepts involved in the
`bitcoin-psbt` crate, the functionality it
provides is essential for working with Bitcoin
transactions in a secure and decentralized manner.

9> could you teach me about PSBT? what they are,
what they do, etc?

PSBT stands for Partially Signed Bitcoin
Transaction, and it is a format for describing
partially signed Bitcoin transactions. A partially
signed transaction is a Bitcoin transaction that
contains some, but not all, of the necessary
signatures required to broadcast the transaction
to the network.

A PSBT is a JSON-encoded object that contains
a description of a Bitcoin transaction, including
its inputs, outputs, and the partially signed
input transaction data. The PSBT format was
introduced in the Bitcoin Improvement Proposal
(BIP) 174, and it is designed to be extensible and
flexible, allowing for the addition of new data
fields as needed.

The PSBT format is particularly useful in
multi-signature transactions where multiple
parties need to sign a transaction, and it can
also be used for other use cases, such as hardware
wallet signing and offline transaction signing. By
using a PSBT, multiple parties can collaboratively
construct and sign a transaction without sharing
their private keys.

The PSBT format includes information such as the
transaction version, the transaction inputs and
outputs, and the scriptPubKeys and redeemScripts
associated with each input. It also includes a set
of partially signed input transaction data that
describes which input is being signed and the
signature itself.

The PSBT format has been adopted by several
Bitcoin wallet software implementations, and it is
supported by the Bitcoin Core client. By using the
PSBT format, Bitcoin wallet software can provide
a more flexible and extensible way to handle
partially signed transactions, making it easier
for users to collaboratively sign transactions and
manage their Bitcoin funds.

11> oh, I meant about PSBT

Sure, here are ten questions and answers about
PSBT:

1. What does PSBT stand for?

PSBT stands for "Partially Signed Bitcoin
Transaction".

2. What is a PSBT?

A PSBT is a partially signed transaction that can
be used to facilitate collaboration between
multiple parties in creating a Bitcoin
transaction.

3. What is the purpose of a PSBT?

The purpose of a PSBT is to enable a transaction
to be partially signed by multiple parties,
allowing each party to approve the transaction
inputs and outputs they are responsible for, while
leaving the remaining inputs and outputs unsigned.

4. How does a PSBT differ from a regular Bitcoin
   transaction?

A PSBT differs from a regular Bitcoin transaction
in that it is not fully signed and contains
additional metadata that facilitates collaboration
and signature collection.

5. What are the benefits of using PSBTs?

The benefits of using PSBTs include increased
flexibility and security in multi-party
transactions, reduced risk of errors and fraud,
and improved privacy.

6. What types of transactions can be created using
   PSBTs?

PSBTs can be used to create standard Bitcoin
transactions, as well as more complex transactions
such as multisignature transactions and smart
contract transactions.

7. What tools are available for creating and
   working with PSBTs?

Several Bitcoin wallets and software libraries
support PSBTs, including Bitcoin Core, Electrum,
and the Rust Bitcoin library.

8. How are PSBTs validated and processed by the
   Bitcoin network?

PSBTs are validated and processed by the Bitcoin
network in the same way as regular Bitcoin
transactions, using the same consensus rules and
validation procedures.

9. What are some use cases for PSBTs?

PSBTs are useful in any situation where multiple
parties need to collaborate to create a Bitcoin
transaction, such as in the creation of
a multisignature wallet or in the execution of
a smart contract.

10. Are there any potential downsides or
    limitations to using PSBTs?

One potential downside of using PSBTs is that they
are more complex than regular Bitcoin
transactions, and can be more difficult to work
with for users who are not familiar with their
structure and operation. Additionally, the
increased flexibility of PSBTs can make them more
vulnerable to certain types of attacks, such as
replay attacks.
